eeeINDONESIAN  COMMODITY  EXCHANGE  MAY  EXPAND  The  Indonesian  Commodity  Exchange  is  likely  to  start  trading  in  at  least  one  new  commodity  ,  and  possibly  two  ,  during  calendar  1987  ,  exchange  chairman  Paian  Nainggolan  said  .  He  told  Reuters  in  a  telephone  interview  that  trading  in  palm  oil  ,  sawn  timber  ,  pepper  or  tobacco  was  being  considered  .  Trading  in  either  crude  palm  oil  (  CPO  )  or  refined  palm  oil  may  also  be  introduced  .  But  he  said  the  question  was  still  being  considered  by  Trade  Minister  Rachmat  Saleh  and  no  decision  on  when  to  go  ahead  had  been  made  .  The  fledgling  exchange  currently  trades  coffee  and  rubber  physicals  on  an  open  outcry  system  four  days  a  week  .  "  Several  factors  make  us  move  cautiously  ,"  Nainggolan  said  .  "  We  want  to  move  slowly  and  safely  so  that  we  do  not  make  a  mistake  and  undermine  confidence  in  the  exchange  ."  Physical  rubber  trading  was  launched  in  1985  ,  with  coffee  added  in  January  1986  .  Rubber  contracts  are  traded  FOB  ,  up  to  five  months  forward  .  Robusta  coffee  grades  four  and  five  are  traded  for  prompt  delivery  and  up  to  five  months  forward  ,  exchange  officials  said  .  The  trade  ministry  and  exchange  board  are  considering  the  introduction  of  futures  trading  later  for  rubber  ,  but  one  official  said  a  feasibility  study  was  needed  first  .  No  decisions  are  likely  until  after  Indonesia  '  s  elections  on  April  23  ,  traders  said  .  Trade  Minister  Saleh  said  on  Monday  that  Indonesia  ,  as  the  world  '  s  second  largest  producer  of  natural  rubber  ,  should  expand  its  rubber  marketing  effort  and  he  hoped  development  of  the  exchange  would  help  this  .  Nainggolan  said  that  the  exchange  was  trying  to  boost  overseas  interest  by  building  up  contacts  with  end  -  users  .  He  said  teams  had  already  been  to  South  Korea  and  Taiwan  to  encourage  direct  use  of  the  exchange  ,  while  a  delegation  would  also  visit  Europe  ,  Mexico  and  some  Latin  American  states  to  encourage  participation  .  Officials  say  the  infant  exchange  has  made  a  good  start  although  trading  in  coffee  has  been  disappointing  .  Transactions  in  rubber  between  the  start  of  trading  in  April  1985  and  December  1986  totalled  9  ,  595  tonnes  ,  worth  6  .  9  mln  dlrs  FOB  ,  plus  184  .  3  mln  rupiah  for  rubber  delivered  locally  ,  the  latest  exchange  report  said  .  Trading  in  coffee  in  calendar  1986  amounted  to  only  1  ,  905  tonnes  in  381  lots  ,  valued  at  6  .  87  billion  rupiah  .  Total  membership  of  the  exchange  is  now  nine  brokers  and  44  traders  .  COLOMBIA  BUSINESS  ASKED  TO  DIVERSIFY  FROM  COFFEE  A  Colombia  government  trade  official  has  urged  the  business  community  to  aggressively  diversify  its  activities  and  stop  relying  so  heavily  on  coffee  .  Samuel  Alberto  Yohai  ,  director  of  the  Foreign  Trade  Institute  ,  INCOMEX  ,  said  private  businessmen  should  not  become  what  he  called  "  mental  hostages  "  to  coffee  ,  traditionally  Colombia  '  s  major  export  .  The  National  Planning  Department  forecast  that  in  1987  coffee  will  account  for  only  one  -  third  of  total  exports  ,  or  about  1  .  5  billion  dlrs  ,  with  oil  and  energy  products  making  up  another  third  and  non  -  traditional  exports  the  remainder  .  COFFEE  COULD  DROP  TO  70  /  80  CTS  ,  CARDENAS  SAYS  International  coffee  prices  could  drop  to  between  70  and  80  cents  a  lb  by  next  October  if  no  agreement  is  reached  to  support  the  market  ,  Jorge  Cardenas  ,  manager  of  Colombia  '  s  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  said  .  Speaking  at  a  forum  for  industrialists  ,  he  said  one  of  the  reasons  was  that  the  market  was  already  saturated  and  that  producers  will  have  excess  production  and  stockpiles  of  39  mln  (  60  -  kg  )  bags  in  1987  .  Today  ,  May  futures  in  New  York  settled  at  107  .  90  cents  a  lb  .  COLOMBIA  COFFEE  REGISTRATIONS  REMAIN  OPEN  Colombia  '  s  coffee  export  registrations  remain  open  and  there  are  no  plans  to  close  them  since  a  new  marketing  policy  means  an  unlimited  amount  can  be  registered  ,  Gilberto  Arango  ,  president  of  the  private  exporters  '  association  said  .  "  The  philosophy  of  the  new  policy  is  not  to  close  registrations  .  Nobody  so  far  said  may  would  be  closed  ,"  he  told  Reuters  .  On  March  13  ,  Colombia  opened  registrations  for  April  and  May  for  an  unlimited  amount  .  Without  giving  breakdowns  ,  Arango  said  private  exporters  had  registered  1  ,  322  ,  804  bags  this  calendar  year  up  to  April  6  ,  or  roughly  440  ,  000  bags  per  month  ,  slightly  lower  than  the  average  in  recent  years  .  He  estimated  the  amount  of  bags  registered  by  the  national  coffee  growers  '  federation  at  about  the  same  ,  meaning  a  total  of  about  900  ,  000  bags  registered  and  sold  per  month  by  Colombia  .  "  The  only  change  that  could  happen  is  ,  because  of  the  volume  ,  we  would  be  told  that  from  such  a  date  ,  registrations  would  be  for  June  shipment  ,  etc  "  Arango  said  .  BRAZILIAN  COFFEE  RAINFALL  THE  FOLLOWING  RAINFALL  WAS  RECORDED  IN  THE  AREAS  OVER  THE  PAST  24  HOURS  PARANA  STATE  :  UMUARAMA  NIL  ,  PARANAVAI  NIL  ,  LONDRINA  NIL  ,  MARINGA  NIL  .  SAO  PAULO  STATE  PRESIDENTE  PRUDENTE  NIL  ,  VOTUPORANGA  NIL  ,  FRANCA  NIL  ,  CATANDUVA  NIL  ,  SAO  CARLOS  NIL  ,  SAO  SIMAO  NIL  .  MINAS  GERAIS  STATE  :  GUAXUPE  NIL  ,  TRES  PONTAS  NIL  .  REUTER  PRICES  GENERALLY  LOWER  AT  NAIROBI  COFFEE  AUCTION  Prices  were  lower  at  this  week  '  s  coffee  auction  for  all  grades  and  qualities  except  better  quality  AB  grades  ,  which  held  steady  ,  the  Coffee  Board  of  Kenya  said  .  The  board  said  it  offered  35  ,  000  bags  and  sold  32  ,  876  .  So  far  this  coffee  year  ,  Kenya  has  sold  918  ,  707  bags  to  all  markets  ,  of  which  326  ,  182  are  for  the  1986  /  7  pool  ,  with  an  overall  average  price  of  41  ,  500  shillings  a  tonne  ,  it  added  .  The  board  will  offer  35  ,  000  bags  at  its  next  auction  on  April  14  .  BAGS  PRICE  PER  50  KG  OFFERED  SOLD  AVERAGE  PB  430  430  2304  .  78  (  2267  .  21  )  AA  7289  6834  2292  .  92  (  2358  .  96  )  AB  12664  11895  2289  .  99  (  2291  .  13  )  C  3198  2867  2073  .  15  (  2107  .  64  )  T  876  876  1508  .  79  (  1510  .  67  )  TT  1375  1375  2053  .  25  (  2095  .  64  )  E  159  159  2250  .  19  (  2252  .  18  )  MISC  9009  8440  1409  .  50  (  1398  .  60  )  TOTAL  35000  32876  AVERAGE  FOR  SALE  2014  .  93  (  1994  .  94  )  COLOMBIA  JAN  EXPORTS  UP  BUT  COFFEE  VALUES  FALL  The  value  of  colombian  exports  other  than  coffee  rose  55  pct  in  january  compared  with  the  same  period  last  year  ,  apparently  setting  a  trend  for  the  trade  balance  in  1987  ,  government  statistics  institute  figures  show  .  They  amounted  to  180  .  8  mln  dlrs  fob  compared  with  147  .  5  mln  dlrs  for  coffee  ,  a  drop  of  42  pct  from  last  year  .  The  trade  balance  registered  a  35  mln  dlr  surplus  ,  compared  with  a  56  mln  dlr  surplus  in  january  1986  .  The  national  planning  department  forecast  that  in  1987  coffee  ,  colombia  '  s  traditional  major  export  ,  will  account  for  only  one  -  third  of  total  exports  ,  or  about  1  .  5  billion  dlrs  .  EXPORTS  OTHER  THAN  COFFEE  RISE  SHARPLY  IN  COLOMBIA  Colombian  exports  other  than  coffee  rose  55  pct  in  January  compared  with  the  same  period  last  year  ,  figures  from  the  government  statistics  institute  show  .  Non  -  coffee  exports  amounted  to  180  .  8  mln  dlrs  fob  compared  with  147  .  5  mln  dlrs  for  coffee  ,  a  drop  of  42  pct  from  last  year  .  The  trade  balance  registered  a  35  mln  dlr  surplus  ,  compared  with  a  56  mln  dlr  surplus  in  January  1986  .  The  national  planning  department  forecast  that  in  1987  coffee  ,  Colombia  '  s  traditional  major  export  ,  will  account  for  only  one  third  of  total  exports  ,  or  about  1  .  5  billion  dlrs  .  UGANDA  PULLS  OUT  OF  COFFEE  MARKET  -  TRADE  SOURCES  Uganda  '  s  Coffee  Marketing  Board  (  CMB  )  has  stopped  offering  coffee  on  the  international  market  because  it  is  unhappy  with  current  prices  ,  coffee  trade  sources  said  .  The  board  suspended  offerings  last  week  but  because  of  its  urgent  need  for  cash  it  was  not  immediately  clear  how  long  it  could  sustain  ,  the  sources  added  .  Hundreds  of  Ugandan  coffee  farmers  and  processors  have  been  waiting  several  months  for  payment  from  the  CMB  ,  which  has  had  trouble  finding  enough  railway  wagons  to  move  the  coffee  to  the  Kenyan  port  of  Mombasa  .  Foreign  banks  have  contributed  to  the  cash  crisis  by  holding  up  remittance  of  Uganda  '  s  hard  currency  earnings  from  coffee  exports  ,  the  government  newspaper  New  Vision  said  .  The  banks  are  holding  up  to  seven  mln  dlrs  in  coffee  money  and  President  Yoweri  Museveni  is  thinking  of  imposing  a  penalty  for  such  delays  ,  it  added  .  Banking  sources  said  a  third  factor  in  the  crisis  was  that  commercial  banks  have  lent  the  board  only  77  billion  shillings  --  the  equivalent  of  55  mln  dlrs  --  for  crop  finance  in  the  current  coffee  year  ,  while  the  government  had  asked  for  100  billion  .  The  CMB  has  455  ,  000  60  -  kg  bags  of  coffee  ,  about  15  pct  of  annual  production  ,  stockpiled  in  Kampala  awaiting  shipment  .  The  crop  accounts  for  over  90  pct  of  Uganda  '  s  export  earnings  and  the  recent  slide  in  prices  to  four  -  year  lows  is  likely  to  more  than  offset  an  expected  increase  in  production  .  CMB  officials  have  forecast  that  because  the  government  has  restored  law  and  order  in  important  growing  areas  ,  Uganda  will  produce  over  three  mln  bags  of  coffee  in  the  year  ending  September  30  ,  about  25  pct  more  than  in  1985  /  6  .  PATON  REPORTS  U  .  S  .  GREEN  COFFEE  ROASTINGS  HIGHER  U  .  S  .  roastings  of  green  coffee  in  the  week  ended  April  4  were  about  275  ,  000  (  60  -  kilo  )  bags  ,  including  that  used  for  soluble  production  ,  compared  with  215  ,  000  bags  in  the  corresponding  week  of  last  year  and  about  320  ,  000  bags  in  the  week  ended  March  28  ,  George  Gordon  Paton  and  Co  Inc  reported  .  It  said  cumulative  roastings  for  calendar  1987  now  total  4  ,  440  ,  000  bags  ,  compared  with  4  ,  540  ,  000  bags  by  this  time  last  year  .  COLOMBIA  JUNE  COFFEE  REGISTRATIONS  OPENED  Colombia  has  opened  coffee  registrations  for  June  shipment  with  no  limit  set  for  private  exporters  ,  as  in  April  and  May  ,  a  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  official  said  .  Colombia  has  sold  an  average  of  900  ,  000  bags  per  month  since  the  beginning  of  the  calendar  year  .  MILD  COFFEE  GROWERS  TO  MEET  IN  GUATEMALA  A  large  group  of  "  other  milds  "  coffee  -  growing  nations  will  hold  talks  in  Guatemala  next  month  to  map  their  strategy  for  next  September  '  s  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  ).  Mario  Fernandez  ,  executive  director  of  the  Costa  Rican  coffee  institute  ,  said  delegates  from  Mexico  ,  the  Dominican  Republic  ,  Peru  ,  Ecuador  ,  India  ,  Papua  New  Guinea  and  five  central  american  nations  will  participate  in  the  two  -  day  strategy  session  beginning  May  4  .  The  main  topic  will  be  reform  of  what  many  producing  countries  perceive  as  the  ICO  '  s  unfair  distribution  of  export  quotas  ,  Fernandez  said  .  He  said  Costa  Rica  would  press  for  quotas  "  based  on  the  real  production  and  export  potential  of  each  country  in  the  past  few  years  "  and  to  distribute  quotas  based  on  "  historic  "  production  levels  rather  than  recent  harvests  and  crop  estimates  .  FRENCH  AID  TO  TOGO  TO  HELP  COFFEE  ,  COCOA  TREES  France  is  to  provide  Togo  with  475  mln  cfa  francs  of  aid  for  a  range  of  projects  that  include  development  of  the  coffee  and  cocoa  industries  and  reafforestation  in  the  south  of  the  country  ,  official  sources  said  .  MEXICO  HAS  NO  PLANS  TO  LEAVE  ICO  Mexico  has  no  intention  of  leaving  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  ),  in  the  event  of  Brazil  withdrawing  from  the  group  ,  the  Mexican  Coffee  Institute  (  IMC  )  said  .  The  IMC  said  in  a  statement  the  ICO  is  an  important  instrument  for  ensuring  producers  obtain  an  adequate  price  .  Mexico  currently  produces  around  five  mln  60  -  kilo  bags  of  coffee  per  year  .  Brazil  said  during  a  meeting  of  coffee  producers  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  over  the  weekend  that  it  would  consider  leaving  the  ICO  if  its  export  quota  was  reduced  by  the  organization  .  RPT  -  EUROPEAN  TRADE  MAY  PROPOSE  NEW  ICO  FORMULA  European  coffee  traders  and  roasters  may  propose  a  new  formula  for  calculating  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  coffee  quotas  at  the  end  of  their  meeting  here  this  week  ,  traders  and  officials  told  Reuters  .  Although  traders  were  unwilling  to  reveal  details  of  the  possible  new  formula  ,  they  said  it  would  give  Brazil  ,  the  world  '  s  biggest  coffee  producer  ,  unchanged  ICO  quotas  for  the  next  two  years  and  could  be  a  basis  for  renegotiation  .  "  The  main  sticking  point  on  quotas  has  been  Brazil  '  s  attitude  ,  and  this  compromise  could  be  a  solution  ,  "  one  said  .  However  ,  the  European  coffee  trade  federation  meeting  ,  which  began  here  today  and  is  to  continue  to  the  end  of  the  week  ,  has  revealed  gaps  in  the  European  position  on  re  -  introducing  quotas  .  Traders  said  that  ,  as  a  whole  ,  the  trade  side  was  against  re  -  introduction  of  ICO  quotas  ,  while  roasters  were  generally  in  favour  with  the  single  proviso  that  there  had  to  be  some  formula  basis  for  re  -  allocating  quota  shares  among  producing  countries  .  The  roasters  said  the  positions  were  generally  fairly  close  ,  and  problems  with  some  Government  officials  .  Germany  and  Italy  were  cited  as  the  extremes  of  polarized  Government  attitudes  ,  with  most  other  countries  on  the  fence  .  Sources  said  Germany  was  the  most  extreme  against  quota  re  -  introduction  ,  while  the  Italians  were  most  in  favour  .  "  Nevertheless  ,  we  expect  to  find  enough  common  ground  by  the  end  of  the  week  to  at  least  present  a  common  European  Community  (  EC  )  view  at  the  next  meeting  of  consumer  members  of  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  (  ICA  )  in  July  ,"  one  trader  said  .  "  We  hope  we  can  present  the  compromise  proposal  and  that  not  only  the  consumer  side  ,  but  the  producer  side  will  accept  it  ,"  one  official  said  .  "  We  have  learned  that  we  can  live  without  the  quotas  that  were  suspended  in  February  last  year  ,  but  would  prefer  the  stability  they  can  bring  to  the  market  as  long  as  we  do  not  simply  return  to  the  old  and  outdated  status  quo  as  far  as  quota  allocation  is  concerned  ,"  he  added  .  Overall  ,  however  ,  trader  and  roaster  opinion  on  the  likelihood  of  a  successful  re  -  negotiation  was  mildly  pessimistic  ,  varying  between  a  50  -  50  chance  and  60  -  40  against  .  "  Our  main  difficulty  will  be  to  persuade  the  U  .  S  .  On  the  consumer  side  and  Brazil  on  the  producer  side  to  agree  to  quota  re  -  introduction  ,  "  he  said  .  "  The  U  .  S  .  Position  has  ,  if  anything  ,  hardened  ,  while  the  new  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  president  has  adopted  the  least  negotiable  position  of  any  of  his  predecessors  ,"  one  trader  said  .  "  However  ,  with  many  producers  starting  to  swing  in  favour  of  the  consumer  position  that  quotas  have  to  be  re  -  allocated  under  a  new  formula  ,  Brazil  is  becoming  increasingly  isolated  ,  which  gives  at  least  some  hope  of  a  compromise  at  the  ICO  quota  meeting  in  September  ,"  the  official  said  .  IBC  DETAILS  PLANS  TO  PAY  CREDITORS  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  gave  details  of  its  plans  to  pay  the  18  companies  that  bought  630  ,  000  bags  of  robusta  coffee  in  the  London  market  on  its  behalf  last  September  .  An  IBC  spokesman  told  Reuters  that  a  15  mln  dlr  loan  from  the  Banco  do  Brasil  would  be  used  to  pay  five  mln  dlrs  a  month  in  June  ,  July  and  August  to  creditors  .  He  said  an  auction  of  coffee  would  raise  additional  money  and  added  that  a  Reuter  report  on  June  16  gave  the  wrong  impression  that  the  auction  was  necessary  to  raise  part  of  the  15  mln  dlrs  .  No  date  has  yet  been  set  for  the  auction  .  EUROPEAN  COFFEE  TRADE  PROPOSES  NEW  QUOTA  FORMULA  European  coffee  roasters  and  traders  have  agreed  to  propose  a  new  formula  for  calculating  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  quotas  ,  Dutch  Coffee  Trade  Association  chairman  chairman  Frits  van  Horick  said  .  Van  Horick  ,  who  is  a  council  member  of  the  European  Coffee  Federation  ,  was  speaking  at  the  end  of  the  ECF  annual  meeting  .  The  new  formula  is  based  on  six  -  year  moving  averages  and  would  give  Brazil  ,  the  world  '  s  biggest  coffee  producer  ,  an  unchanged  quota  for  the  remaining  two  years  of  the  current  coffee  agreement  ,  van  Horick  said  .  If  accepted  by  the  consumer  and  producer  members  of  the  ICO  ,  the  formula  could  also  be  a  basis  for  negotiating  a  new  agreement  ,  van  Horick  said  .  Coffee  quotas  were  suspended  in  February  last  year  when  prices  shot  up  on  fears  of  a  drought  -  induced  crop  disaster  in  Brazil  .  Although  prices  are  now  considerably  lower  ,  consumers  and  producers  have  been  unable  to  agree  on  re  -  introduction  .  "  Brazil  has  been  the  most  strongly  against  any  change  in  the  formula  because  it  feared  a  lower  quota  .  But  our  proposal  leaves  it  very  little  to  object  to  ,"  van  Horick  said  .  "  The  existing  quota  system  is  far  too  rigid  and  does  not  reflect  supply  and  demand  reality  ,"  he  said  .  "  Our  formula  builds  flexibility  into  the  system  and  will  benefit  almost  everyone  ."  Although  full  implications  of  the  new  formula  have  still  to  be  worked  out  ,  initial  estimates  suggest  countries  such  as  Colombia  ,  Kenya  ,  Indonesia  and  Costa  Rica  would  get  slightly  higher  quotas  ,  while  others  such  as  the  Ivory  Coast  ,  El  Salvador  and  Nicaragua  would  lose  quota  share  ,  van  Horick  said  .  Because  the  proposal  provides  that  future  quota  distribution  must  reflect  current  demand  and  actual  supply  ,  it  should  also  prevent  under  -  shipment  of  quota  as  countries  doing  so  would  automatically  prejudice  their  following  year  '  s  quota  .  "  If  the  ICO  consumers  accept  our  proposal  it  stands  at  least  a  fair  chance  of  being  accepted  by  the  producers  at  the  September  meeting  ,  most  of  whom  are  generally  in  favour  of  a  new  quota  formula  ,  "  van  Horick  said  .  At  the  same  time  much  will  depend  on  Brazil  '  s  attitude  .  "  Brazil  is  increasingly  isolated  on  the  producer  side  .  If  there  is  no  frost  damage  to  its  coffee  crop  over  the  next  two  months  and  most  other  producers  favour  our  proposal  ,  we  might  just  get  an  agreement  ,"  van  Horick  added  .  COLOMBIA  HELPFUL  BUT  COFFEE  QUOTAS  UNCERTAIN  --  U  .  S  .  A  U  .  S  .  government  trade  official  responsible  for  coffee  policy  said  prospects  for  an  accord  on  coffee  quotas  are  still  uncertain  despite  recent  Colombian  efforts  to  bridge  differences  between  producers  and  consumers  .  Jon  Rosenbaum  ,  an  assistant  U  .  S  .  trade  representative  just  back  from  trade  talks  in  Colombia  ,  said  most  producing  countries  now  accept  some  sort  of  standardized  criteria  must  be  agreed  to  reintroduce  coffee  quotas  .  "  There  is  one  country  which  evidently  still  does  not  ,"  Rosenbaum  said  in  an  obvious  reference  to  Brazil  ,  which  has  been  negative  recently  on  a  reintroduction  of  quotas  .  Rosenbaum  said  because  of  the  stance  of  Brazil  the  outlook  for  an  agreement  to  reintroduce  coffee  quotas  at  the  September  International  Coffee  Organization  meeting  is  hard  to  predict  .  He  said  that  during  the  visit  to  Bogota  he  held  technical  discussions  with  Colombian  officials  .  While  he  did  not  meet  with  Jorge  Cardenas  ,  head  of  the  Colombian  coffee  producers  federation  ,  who  was  in  Europe  ,  Cardenas  left  a  "  positive  letter  ,"  Rosenbaum  said  .  The  Cardenas  letter  responded  to  a  U  .  S  .  letter  last  month  which  praised  Colombia  for  trying  to  find  a  compromise  formula  for  the  reintroduction  of  quotas  ,  but  outlined  several  concerns  with  the  technical  details  of  the  Colombian  plan  .  Rosenbaum  could  not  be  reached  later  in  the  day  for  comment  on  a  new  formula  for  calculating  ICO  quotas  agreed  to  by  European  coffee  roasters  and  traders  .  Dutch  coffee  trade  association  chairman  Frits  van  Horick  said  in  Amsterdam  the  new  formula  is  based  on  six  year  moving  averages  and  would  give  Brazil  an  unchanged  export  quota  for  the  remaining  to  years  of  the  current  coffee  agreement  .  The  U  .  S  .  has  said  it  will  not  agree  to  any  coffee  quotas  unless  "  objective  criteria  "  which  reflect  recent  changes  in  the  coffee  market  are  used  to  set  export  limits  .  RIO  DE  JANEIRO  -  IBC  ESTIMATES  1987  -  88  COFFEE  CROP  AT  35  .  2  MLN  BAGS  RIO  DE  JANEIRO  -  IBC  ESTIMATES  1987  -  88  COFFEE  CROP  AT  35  .  2  MLN  BAGS  BRAZIL  COULD  EXPORT  19  MLN  BAGS  OF  COFFEE  -  IBC  Brazil  '  s  coffee  exports  could  amount  to  19  mln  bags  this  year  ,  because  of  the  excellent  crop  estimate  of  35  .  2  mln  bags  ,  an  IBC  spokesman  said  .  He  said  exports  could  surpass  the  average  annual  18  mln  bags  mark  ,  especially  if  the  final  harvest  to  be  conducted  in  October  and  November  confirms  the  crop  at  over  35  mln  bags  .  He  said  the  average  limit  of  errors  for  the  official  crop  harvest  could  be  set  at  five  pct  above  or  below  the  first  estimates  officially  published  today  .  He  said  the  IBC  agreed  with  a  request  by  producers  for  the  Institute  to  ask  the  government  for  a  monthly  indexation  of  the  guarantee  minimum  price  .  IVORY  COAST  WEATHER  NO  PROBLEM  FOR  1986  /  87  CROPS  Ivory  Coast  rainfall  this  season  has  been  less  than  in  previous  years  ,  but  1986  /  87  cocoa  and  coffee  production  has  not  suffered  ,  the  official  Ivorian  daily  Fraternite  Matin  reported  .  The  newspaper  did  not  speculate  on  whether  recent  dry  conditions  seriously  threatened  the  main  1987  /  88  cocoa  crop  .  Trade  sources  said  the  weather  up  to  now  could  be  irrelevant  if  there  is  good  rainfall  in  coming  weeks  .  Precipitation  during  the  present  campaign  has  been  lowest  in  northern  savannah  regions  ,  where  the  cotton  crop  has  especially  benefitted  from  the  dry  weather  ,  Fraternite  Matin  said  .  Agriculture  Minister  Denis  Bra  Kanon  said  earlier  this  month  1986  /  87  cotton  output  would  be  a  record  213  ,  506  tonnes  ,  compared  with  190  ,  000  tonnes  in  1985  /  86  .  Fraternite  Matin  said  the  mainstays  of  Ivorian  agriculture  had  been  little  affected  by  the  dry  weather  .  Coffee  does  not  need  very  much  water  to  survive  and  only  old  cocoa  plants  have  been  affected  in  some  regions  ,  it  added  .  London  -  based  dealer  Gill  and  Duffus  recently  forecast  1986  /  87  Ivory  Coast  cocoa  output  at  a  record  590  ,  000  tonnes  ,  which  compares  with  585  ,  000  estimated  for  1985  /  86  .  It  described  early  development  of  the  new  main  crop  as  patchy  .  The  U  .  S  .  Agriculture  Department  (  USDA  )  earlier  this  year  forecast  a  drop  in  1986  /  87  coffee  production  in  the  Ivory  Coast  due  to  drought  in  the  western  part  of  the  country  .  It  estimated  the  crop  at  3  .  84  mln  bags  compared  with  the  previous  year  '  s  4  .  33  mln  bag  harvest  .  Ivorian  officials  have  only  described  this  year  '  s  coffee  crop  as  "  normal  ."  INDIA  RELAXES  RULES  FOR  EXPORT  PROMOTION  The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  ,  RBI  ,  announced  new  rules  to  allow  exporters  of  25  products  to  use  foreign  exchange  up  to  10  pct  of  their  firm  '  s  total  annual  export  earnings  for  export  promotion  abroad  .  The  move  is  designed  by  the  government  to  improve  India  '  s  trade  deficit  .  Products  eligible  for  the  new  Blanket  Exchange  Permit  Scheme  include  tea  bags  ,  cigarettes  ,  coffee  ,  leather  ,  various  textiles  ,  chemicals  ,  pharmaceuticals  ,  plastics  ,  engineering  and  electronic  goods  ,  ready  -  made  garments  ,  processed  food  ,  sports  goods  ,  fabricated  mica  and  consultancy  services  .  The  scheme  replaces  current  rules  which  allow  different  amounts  of  foreign  exchange  to  be  used  only  when  firms  attain  a  minimum  annual  turnover  prescribed  for  each  product  .  RBI  said  under  the  new  rule  ,  16  other  products  will  qualify  ,  on  a  discretionary  basis  ,  for  overseas  promotional  spending  of  not  more  than  two  pct  of  the  freight  -  on  -  board  value  of  annual  export  earnings  .  These  include  oil  cakes  ,  cereals  ,  raw  cotton  ,  raw  and  semi  -  processed  leather  ,  gems  ,  castor  and  sandalwood  oil  ,  psyllium  husks  and  seeds  ,  opium  and  various  mineral  ores  .  RBI  said  exporters  of  products  not  covered  by  either  of  the  two  groups  will  be  eligible  to  use  up  to  five  pct  of  their  freight  -  on  -  board  value  of  their  annual  export  earnings  .  Industry  sources  said  the  new  entitlements  ,  considerably  higher  than  the  previous  limits  ,  are  also  more  flexible  because  holders  of  new  permits  no  longer  need  to  frequently  apply  to  RBI  for  release  of  foreign  exchange  for  export  purposes  .  DAUSTER  SAYS  CONSUMERS  SHOULD  KEEP  OUT  OF  QUOTAS  Consumer  countries  should  not  intervene  in  the  distribution  of  coffee  export  quotas  ,  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  president  Jorio  Dauster  said  .  "  Distribution  of  export  quotas  should  be  in  the  hands  of  producers  as  has  been  traditional  ,"  Dauster  ,  a  delegate  at  the  recent  coffee  symposium  here  ,  told  journalists  .  "  When  consumers  want  to  get  involved  ,  talks  are  much  more  difficult  ."  The  main  consumer  country  the  United  States  and  main  producer  Brazil  failed  to  reach  agreement  on  quota  distribution  when  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  met  in  February  .  Dauster  said  Brazil  '  s  role  when  the  ICO  meets  in  London  in  September  will  be  to  support  the  world  coffee  pact  ,  defend  its  market  share  and  argue  for  distribution  of  quotas  to  be  in  the  hands  of  producer  countries  .  "  We  have  sacrificed  a  great  deal  already  ,"  he  said  .  "  this  year  we  have  a  crop  of  35  mln  bags  ,  we  have  economic  problems  and  we  are  not  in  a  position  to  do  favours  ."  U  .  S  .  COFFEE  IMPORT  REPORTING  SYSTEM  QUESTIONED  A  voluntary  compliance  system  for  monitoring  U  .  S  .  coffee  imports  under  quotas  is  viewed  skeptically  by  many  in  the  coffee  industry  ,  said  analysts  and  trade  sources  .  "  Many  sectors  of  the  trade  ,  including  large  roasters  and  importers  ,  are  adamant  against  voluntary  compliance  because  of  the  past  ,  which  was  subject  to  tremendous  irregularities  as  it  became  a  matter  of  the  trade  monitoring  each  other  ,"  one  analyst  said  .  On  Monday  ,  a  National  Coffee  Association  newsletter  said  the  Office  of  U  .  S  .  Trade  Representative  will  implement  a  voluntary  compliance  system  temporarily  because  legislation  to  monitor  imports  is  tied  up  in  the  Congressional  trade  bill  .  Under  the  arrangement  ,  milar  to  one  in  1980  ,  coffee  importers  would  voluntarily  present  needed  documents  to  the  U  .  S  .  government  until  Congress  approves  the  monitoring  authority  ,  but  if  coffee  arrives  without  valid  certification  ,  it  will  still  be  allowed  entry  .  While  many  believe  producers  will  not  seek  to  add  to  the  overburdened  stock  situation  in  the  U  .  S  .,  others  believe  some  will  ship  outside  of  the  quota  requirements  in  lieu  of  monitoring  controls  ,  trade  sources  said  .  "  Last  time  ,  there  was  a  lot  of  false  information  submitted  to  customs  which  resulted  in  a  lot  of  indictments  and  fines  ,"  a  U  .  S  .  Customs  spokesman  said  .  "  Customs  can  do  a  good  job  when  given  the  tools  ,  but  when  its  hands  are  tied  ,  it  doesn  '  t  have  the  authority  to  demand  Form  O  (  documents  tracking  merchandise  from  source  to  destination  ),"  he  said  .  Many  see  it  as  a  true  test  of  whether  producers  and  importers  will  abide  by  the  quota  system  .  "  It  is  a  key  to  seeing  whether  there  are  any  teeth  in  the  quota  agreement  ,"  said  one  major  U  .  S  .  roaster  .  "  Last  time  we  had  a  gentleman  '  s  agreement  ,  the  trade  did  not  act  as  a  gentleman  ,"  said  another  analyst  adding  ,  "  without  the  need  to  submit  documents  ,  the  ball  will  be  in  the  producers  '  hands  ."  Some  feel  that  importers  will  take  advantage  of  the  voluntary  compliance  due  to  development  of  a  two  -  tier  market  ,  in  which  non  -  member  countries  buy  coffee  at  a  big  discount  .  Many  fear  that  dealers  will  buy  coffee  destined  for  non  -  member  countries  at  discounts  and  then  bring  it  into  the  U  .  S  .  falsely  labelled  .  According  to  customs  officials  ,  several  green  coffee  importers  confessed  in  1985  that  they  had  imported  coffee  fraudulently  after  buying  it  for  non  -  member  destinations  ,  forging  landing  certificates  and  then  relabelling  it  as  navy  beans  .  "  If  there  '  s  that  much  of  a  discrepancy  between  prices  for  one  country  and  another  ,  producers  may  be  teted  to  get  rid  of  their  stocks  of  coffee  by  selling  to  non  -  member  nations  and  by  circumventing  the  quota  provisions  ,"  said  Paine  Webber  analyst  Bernie  Savaiko  .  Still  ,  others  believe  that  producers  will  not  be  hard  pressed  to  aggravate  the  overburdened  coffee  stock  situation  in  the  U  .  S  .  in  the  near  term  .  "  It  would  be  naive  to  suggest  that  any  agreement  would  not  have  some  share  of  connivance  ,  but  I  think  the  voluntary  system  seemed  to  suffice  and  ,  coupled  with  the  fact  that  we  have  so  much  coffee  ,  I  don  '  t  think  that  it  poses  that  much  of  a  threat  ,"  one  trader  said  .  IBC  SEEKS  EXPORT  DETAILS  TO  SET  COFFEE  QUOTAS  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  has  given  shippers  until  close  of  business  on  Thursday  to  submit  details  of  past  export  performance  in  order  that  individual  quotas  can  be  allocated  ,  an  IBC  spokesman  said  .  He  told  Reuters  IBC  President  Jorio  Dauster  has  confirmed  acceptance  of  National  Coffee  Policy  Council  (  CNPC  )  proposals  to  establish  individual  export  quotas  based  65  pct  on  export  performance  ,  25  pct  on  stocks  and  10  pct  by  auction  .  Shippers  can  choose  their  best  period  of  12  consecutive  months  between  April  1  ,  1985  ,  and  September  30  ,  1987  ,  to  be  used  for  calculating  the  export  performace  portion  .  The  IBC  will  total  all  the  figures  ,  calculate  each  shippers  participation  and  use  this  as  a  basis  for  allocation  of  individual  quotas  ,  the  IBC  spokesman  said  .  He  said  the  IBC  has  already  settled  with  the  Sao  Paulo  Mercantile  Exchange  how  the  auction  system  will  operate  .  Shippers  can  bid  a  premium  over  the  contribution  quota  payable  on  coffee  exports  and  the  succesful  bidder  will  add  this  premium  to  the  contribution  quota  when  he  submits  his  export  sales  declaration  form  .  Auctions  will  not  start  until  after  the  opening  of  export  registrations  .  The  spokesman  could  not  say  when  this  might  be  but  trade  sources  said  an  announcement  could  come  at  the  end  of  the  week  ,  opening  registraions  from  Monday  .  A  meeting  has  been  set  for  tomorrow  in  Brasilia  of  the  CNPC  '  s  export  marketing  committee  to  establish  a  system  for  allocating  the  25  pct  of  export  quotas  based  on  stock  levels  ,  the  spokesman  added  .  A  system  of  individual  export  quotas  is  being  reestablished  in  Brazil  -  a  previous  system  was  abandoned  in  1985  -  to  ensure  shipments  are  kept  in  line  with  the  country  '  s  ICO  quota  .  ICO  EXECUTIVE  BOARD  TO  MEET  EARLY  NOVEMBER  The  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  Executive  Board  is  to  hold  a  meeting  on  November  3  /  4  ,  its  first  since  export  quotas  were  re  -  introduced  early  this  month  .  An  ICO  spokesman  said  the  session  ,  for  the  first  time  under  the  chairmanship  of  Bruno  Caron  of  France  ,  will  review  the  market  situation  and  the  operation  of  quotas  .  On  November  5  the  six  exporters  making  up  the  ICO  Board  of  Management  of  the  Promotion  Fund  will  review  its  program  for  the  1987  /  88  year  (  Oct  /  Sept  )  and  items  left  over  from  1986  /  87  .  On  November  2  a  six  nation  working  group  will  consider  stock  verification  in  Papua  New  Guinea  .  COLOMBIA  OPENS  COFFEE  REGISTRATIONS  -  LDN  TRADE  Colombia  has  opened  export  registrations  for  November  coffee  shipments  ,  trade  sources  said  .  No  further  details  were  available  .  UGANDA  PLANS  TO  EXPORT  ROASTED  COFFEE  TO  EUROPE  Uganda  plans  to  export  roasted  coffee  to  Europe  by  the  end  of  1988  ,  a  prominent  local  businessman  said  .  A  .  R  .  Sendi  said  on  Sunday  that  Uganda  '  s  Ministry  of  Industry  supports  his  plan  to  build  a  factory  to  roast  ,  grind  and  pack  local  coffee  for  export  .  Construction  will  start  in  December  and  the  factory  should  be  ready  by  next  October  .  He  said  the  Marketing  Ministry  has  authorised  the  Coffee  Marketing  Board  to  supply  his  company  &  lt  ;  Unipack  >  with  24  ,  000  tonnes  of  beans  a  year  for  processing  and  export  .  Sendi  also  told  reporters  he  had  negotiated  a  69  .  7  mln  French  franc  loan  from  the  Banque  Industrielle  d  '  Afrique  Oriental  in  Paris  .  Uganda  is  the  world  '  s  fifth  largest  coffee  producer  ,  and  expects  to  produce  about  200  ,  000  tonnes  this  year  .  Market  sources  say  roasted  coffee  exports  will  benefit  Uganda  '  s  economy  as  they  will  not  be  included  in  the  2  .  38  mln  (  60  kg  )  bag  export  quota  assigned  to  the  country  under  the  latest  International  Coffee  Agreement  .  In  addition  ,  the  value  of  roasted  coffee  should  be  substantially  higher  than  that  of  unroasted  beans  ,  they  said  .  The  U  .  S  .  Is  the  biggest  buyer  of  Ugandan  coffee  ,  most  of  which  is  used  to  produce  instant  coffee  .  COFFEE  ,  SUGAR  AND  COCOA  EXCHANGE  NAMES  CHAIRMAN  The  New  York  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  (  CSCE  )  elected  former  first  vice  chairman  Gerald  Clancy  to  a  two  -  year  term  as  chairman  of  the  board  of  managers  ,  replacing  previous  chairman  Howard  Katz  .  Katz  ,  chairman  since  1985  ,  will  remain  a  board  member  .  Clancy  currently  serves  on  the  Exchange  board  of  managers  as  chairman  of  its  appeals  ,  executive  ,  pension  and  political  action  committees  .  The  CSCE  also  elected  Charles  Nastro  ,  executive  vice  president  of  Shearson  Lehman  Bros  ,  as  first  vice  chairman  .  Anthony  Maccia  ,  vice  president  of  Woodhouse  ,  Drake  and  Carey  ,  was  named  second  vice  chairman  ,  and  Clifford  Evans  ,  president  of  Demico  Futures  ,  was  elected  treasurer  .  CARDENAS  SEES  NO  MAJOR  DECISIONS  AT  ICO  MEETING  Jorge  Cardenas  ,  manager  of  Colombia  '  s  coffee  growers  '  federation  ,  said  he  did  not  believe  any  important  decisions  would  emerge  from  an  upcoming  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  ).  The  ICO  executive  board  is  set  to  meet  in  London  from  March  31  and  could  decide  to  call  a  special  council  session  by  the  end  of  April  to  discuss  export  quotas  .  "  It  '  s  going  to  be  a  routine  meeting  ,  an  update  of  what  has  been  happening  in  the  market  ,  but  it  '  s  unlikely  any  major  decisions  are  taken  ,"  Cardenas  told  journalists  .  Earlier  this  month  ,  talks  in  London  to  re  -  introduce  export  quotas  ,  suspended  in  February  1986  ,  ended  in  failure  .  Colombian  finance  minister  Cesar  Gaviria  ,  also  talking  to  reporters  at  the  end  of  the  weekly  National  Coffee  Committee  meeting  ,  said  the  positions  of  Brazil  and  of  the  United  States  were  too  far  apart  to  allow  a  prompt  agreement  on  quotas  .  Brazil  '  s  coffee  chief  Jorio  Dauster  said  yesterday  Brazil  would  not  change  its  coffee  policies  .  Cardenas  said  the  market  situation  was  getting  clearer  because  the  trade  knew  the  projected  output  and  stockpile  levels  of  producers  .  He  said  according  to  ICO  statistics  there  was  a  shortfall  of  nine  mln  (  60  -  kg  )  bags  on  the  world  market  between  October  ,  the  start  of  the  coffee  year  ,  and  February  .  KENYAN  ECONOMY  FACES  PROBLEMS  ,  PRESIDENT  SAYS  The  Kenyan  economy  is  heading  for  difficult  times  after  a  boom  last  year  ,  and  the  country  must  tighten  its  belt  to  prevent  the  balance  of  payments  swinging  too  far  into  deficit  ,  President  Daniel  Arap  Moi  said  .  In  a  speech  at  the  state  opening  of  parliament  ,  Moi  said  high  coffee  prices  and  cheap  oil  in  1986  led  to  economic  growth  of  five  pct  ,  compared  with  4  .  1  pct  in  1985  .  The  same  factors  produced  a  two  billion  shilling  balance  of  payments  surplus  and  inflation  fell  to  5  .  6  pct  from  10  .  7  pct  in  1985  ,  he  added  .  "  But  both  these  factors  are  no  longer  in  our  favour  ...  As  a  result  ,  we  cannot  expect  an  increase  in  foreign  exchange  reserves  during  the  year  ,"  he  said  .  The  price  of  coffee  ,  Kenya  '  s  main  source  of  foreign  exchange  ,  fell  in  London  today  to  about  94  cents  a  pound  from  a  peak  of  2  .  14  dlrs  in  January  1986  .  Crude  oil  ,  which  early  last  year  slipped  below  10  dlrs  a  barrel  ,  has  since  crept  back  to  over  18  dlrs  .  Moi  said  the  price  changes  ,  coupled  with  a  general  decline  in  the  flow  of  capital  from  the  rest  of  the  world  ,  made  it  more  difficult  to  finance  the  government  '  s  budget  deficit  .  Kenya  was  already  spending  over  27  pct  of  its  budget  on  servicing  its  debts  and  last  year  it  was  a  net  exporter  of  capital  for  the  first  time  in  its  history  ,  he  added  .  "  This  is  a  clear  indication  that  we  are  entering  a  difficult  phase  as  regards  our  external  debts  ,  and  it  is  imperative  that  we  raise  the  rate  of  domestic  savings  and  rely  less  on  foreign  sources  to  finance  our  development  ,"  he  said  .  "  It  will  be  necessary  to  maintain  strict  discipline  on  expenditure  ...  And  members  of  this  house  will  have  to  take  the  lead  in  encouraging  wananchi  (  ordinary  people  )  to  be  more  frugal  in  satisfying  immediate  needs  ,"  the  president  added  .  INDIA  STEPS  UP  COUNTERTRADE  DEALS  TO  CUT  TRADE  GAP  India  is  searching  for  non  -  communist  countertrade  partners  to  help  it  cut  its  trade  deficit  and  conserve  foreign  exchange  .  Wheat  ,  tobacco  ,  tea  ,  coffee  ,  jute  ,  engineering  and  electronic  goods  ,  as  well  as  minerals  including  iron  ore  ,  are  all  on  offer  in  return  for  crude  oil  ,  petroleum  products  ,  chemicals  ,  steel  and  machinery  ,  trade  sources  told  Reuters  .  Most  of  the  impetus  behind  countertrade  ,  which  began  in  1984  ,  comes  from  two  state  trading  firms  --  the  State  Trading  Corp  (  STC  )  and  the  Minerals  and  Metals  Trading  Corp  (  MMTC  ).  "  The  two  state  trading  corporations  are  free  to  use  their  buying  power  in  respect  to  bulk  commodities  to  promote  Indian  exports  ,"  a  commerce  ministry  spokeswoman  said  ,  adding  that  private  firms  are  excluded  from  countertrading  .  One  trade  source  said  India  has  targetted  countries  that  depend  on  an  Indian  domestic  market  recently  opened  to  foreign  imports  .  However  ,  countertrade  deals  still  make  up  only  a  small  part  of  India  '  s  total  trading  and  are  likely  to  account  for  less  than  eight  pct  of  the  estimated  18  .  53  billion  dlrs  in  trade  during  the  nine  months  ended  December  ,  the  sources  said  .  Countertrade  accounted  for  just  five  pct  of  India  '  s  25  .  65  billion  dlrs  in  trade  during  fiscal  1985  /  86  ended  March  ,  against  almost  nothing  in  1984  /  85  ,  official  figures  show  .  However  ,  the  figures  exclude  exchanges  with  the  Eastern  Bloc  paid  in  non  -  convertible  Indian  rupees  ,  the  sources  said  .  Total  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  ,  involving  swaps  of  agricultural  produce  and  textiles  for  Soviet  arms  and  crude  oil  ,  is  estimated  at  3  .  04  billion  dlrs  in  fiscal  1986  /  87  ,  against  three  billion  in  1985  /  86  .  Indian  countertrade  ,  which  is  being  promoted  mainly  to  help  narrow  the  country  '  s  large  trade  deficit  ,  is  still  insignificant  compared  with  agreements  reached  by  Indonesia  ,  Venezuela  and  Brazil  ,  the  trade  sources  said  .  The  trade  deficit  ,  which  hit  an  estimated  record  6  .  96  billion  dlrs  in  1985  /  86  ,  is  expected  to  decline  to  5  .  6  billion  in  the  current  fiscal  year  .  But  the  push  to  include  non  -  communist  countries  in  countertrade  is  also  due  to  other  factors  ,  including  the  slow  growth  of  foreign  reserves  ,  a  tight  debt  repayment  schedule  ,  shrinking  aid  and  trade  protectionism  ,  businessmen  said  .  One  source  said  India  is  showing  more  dynamism  in  promoting  countertrade  deals  than  in  the  past  ,  when  the  deals  were  made  discreetly  because  they  break  GATT  rules  .  As  a  member  of  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (  GATT  ),  India  cannot  officially  support  bartering  .  The  MMTC  '  s  recent  countertrade  deals  include  iron  ore  exports  to  Yugoslavia  for  steel  structures  and  rails  .  "  MMTC  '  s  recent  global  tenders  now  include  a  clause  that  preference  will  be  given  to  parties  who  accept  payment  in  kind  for  goods  and  services  sold  to  India  ,"  a  trade  official  said  ,  adding  that  the  policy  remains  flexible  .  "  We  also  take  into  account  other  factors  such  as  prices  at  which  the  goods  and  services  are  offered  to  India  ,"  the  trade  official  said  .  Early  this  year  the  commerce  ministry  quietly  told  foreign  companies  interested  in  selling  aircraft  ,  ships  ,  drilling  rigs  and  railway  equipment  to  India  that  they  stood  a  better  chance  if  they  bought  Indian  goods  or  services  in  return  ,  the  trade  sources  said  .  Illustrating  the  point  ,  the  official  said  a  South  Korean  firm  recently  agreed  to  sell  a  drilling  platform  worth  40  mln  dlrs  to  the  state  -  run  Oil  and  Natural  Gas  Commission  .  In  return  ,  the  South  Koreans  gave  a  verbal  assurance  to  buy  Indian  goods  worth  10  pct  of  the  contract  ,  against  the  25  pct  sought  by  New  Delhi  ,  the  trade  official  said  .  "  We  selected  the  Korean  firm  because  its  bid  was  the  lowest  ,"  he  added  .  Countertrade  is  helping  African  countries  short  of  foreign  currency  to  import  goods  .  India  has  signed  a  trade  protocol  to  buy  up  to  15  ,  000  tonnes  of  asbestos  fibre  from  Zimbabwe  in  exchange  for  Indian  goods  ,  including  jute  bags  and  cars  .  But  despite  India  '  s  new  drive  ,  countertrade  has  some  inherent  problems  ,  they  added  .  "  It  is  not  always  easy  to  meet  the  basic  requirement  that  the  trade  should  always  be  balanced  ,"  one  trade  source  said  .  "  The  other  problem  is  it  is  often  difficult  to  supply  or  buy  commodities  which  the  other  party  wants  ."  Another  added  ,  "  Barter  is  also  restrictive  .  We  look  upon  it  as  a  temporary  measure  to  get  over  the  current  balance  of  payments  difficulty  .  "  This  is  why  countertrade  has  not  been  made  a  law  in  India  .  It  does  not  even  figure  in  the  country  '  s  foreign  trade  policy  ."  ZIMBABWE  COFFEE  OUTPUT  SET  TO  RISE  Zimbabwean  coffee  output  will  reach  13  ,  000  tonnes  this  year  ,  up  on  just  over  11  ,  000  tonnes  produced  in  1986  ,  the  Commercial  Coffee  Growers  Association  said  .  Administrative  Executive  Robin  Taylor  told  the  domestic  news  agency  ZIANA  that  Zimbabwe  earned  the  equivalent  of  33  mln  U  .  S  .  Dlrs  from  coffee  exports  last  year  .  He  would  not  say  how  much  the  country  would  earn  in  1987  .  Taylor  said  the  173  commercial  coffee  growers  under  his  association  had  increased  production  from  5  ,  632  tonnes  in  1980  to  more  than  11  ,  000  tonnes  in  l986  .  INDIA  STEPS  UP  COUNTERTRADE  DEALS  India  is  searching  for  non  -  communist  countertrade  partners  to  help  it  cut  its  trade  deficit  and  conserve  foreign  exchange  .  Wheat  ,  tobacco  ,  tea  ,  coffee  ,  jute  ,  engineering  and  electronic  goods  ,  as  well  as  minerals  including  iron  ore  ,  are  all  on  offer  in  return  for  crude  oil  ,  petroleum  products  ,  chemicals  ,  steel  and  machinery  ,  trade  sources  told  Reuters  .  Most  of  the  impetus  behind  countertrade  ,  which  began  in  1984  ,  comes  from  two  state  trading  firms  --  the  State  Trading  Corp  (  STC  )  and  the  Minerals  and  Metals  Trading  Corp  (  MMTC  ).  "  The  two  state  trading  corporations  are  free  to  use  their  buying  power  in  respect  to  bulk  commodities  to  promote  Indian  exports  ,"  a  commerce  ministry  spokeswoman  said  ,  adding  that  private  firms  are  excluded  from  countertrading  .  One  trade  source  said  India  has  targetted  countries  that  depend  on  an  Indian  domestic  market  recently  opened  to  foreign  imports  .  But  countertrade  deals  still  make  up  only  a  small  part  of  India  '  s  total  trading  and  are  likely  to  account  for  less  than  eight  pct  of  the  estimated  18  .  53  billion  dlrs  in  trade  during  the  nine  months  ended  December  ,  the  sources  said  .  Countertrade  accounted  for  just  five  pct  of  India  '  s  25  .  65  billion  dlrs  in  trade  during  fiscal  1985  /  86  ended  March  ,  against  almost  nothing  in  1984  /  85  ,  official  figures  show  .  However  ,  the  figures  exclude  exchanges  with  the  Eastern  Bloc  paid  in  non  -  convertible  Indian  rupees  ,  the  sources  said  .  Total  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  ,  involving  swaps  of  agricultural  produce  and  textiles  for  Soviet  arms  and  crude  oil  ,  is  estimated  at  3  .  04  billion  dlrs  in  fiscal  1986  /  87  .  COFFEE  PRICES  BAD  NEWS  FOR  LATIN  AMERICA  -  MINISTER  A  senior  Nicaraguan  official  said  a  recent  plunge  in  coffee  prices  was  economically  and  politically  disastrous  for  Latin  American  coffee  -  producing  countries  .  Nicaraguan  Foreign  Trade  Minister  Alejandro  Martinez  Cuenca  was  in  London  to  brief  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  executive  board  producer  members  after  a  meeting  last  weekend  in  Managua  attended  by  eight  Latin  American  coffee  producers  to  discuss  the  fall  in  coffee  prices  .  London  coffee  prices  slid  300  stg  per  tonne  in  March  ,  to  1  ,  279  stg  from  1  ,  580  stg  at  end  -  February  .  Martinez  told  reporters  the  price  fall  since  the  ICO  failed  to  agree  export  quotas  on  March  1  has  had  disastrous  results  on  Latin  America  ,  both  economically  and  politically  .  He  urged  continued  negotiations  among  coffee  producers  to  pave  the  way  for  a  coffee  export  quota  agreement  by  September  .  Coffee  export  quotas  ,  used  to  regulate  coffee  prices  under  an  International  Coffee  Agreement  ,  were  suspended  a  year  ago  when  prices  soared  in  response  to  a  drought  in  Brazil  .  Central  American  economic  ministers  have  estimated  the  region  will  lose  720  mln  dlrs  in  foreign  exchange  earnings  in  1987  if  coffee  prices  are  not  rescued  by  a  quota  arrangement  ,  Martinez  said  .  He  said  ICO  quota  talks  broke  down  last  month  because  consumer  members  lack  the  political  will  to  fully  support  commodity  agreements  ,  and  because  consumers  tried  to  dictate  to  producers  .  PATON  REPORTS  U  .  S  .  GREEN  COFFEE  ROASTINGS  HIGHER  U  .  S  .  roastings  of  green  coffee  in  the  week  ended  March  21  were  about  250  ,  000  (  60  -  kilo  )  bags  ,  including  that  used  for  soluble  production  ,  compared  with  195  ,  000  bags  in  the  corresponding  week  of  last  year  and  about  300  ,  000  bags  in  the  week  ended  March  14  ,  George  Gordon  Paton  and  Co  Inc  reported  .  It  said  cumulative  roastings  for  calendar  1987  now  total  3  ,  845  ,  000  bags  ,  compared  with  4  ,  070  ,  000  bags  by  this  time  last  year  .  TOP  QUALITIES  SOUGHT  ON  HAMBURG  COFFEE  MARKET  The  green  coffee  market  saw  some  demand  for  high  quality  coffees  in  the  past  week  ,  but  business  was  described  as  generally  unsatisfactory  ,  trade  sources  said  .  Especially  sought  were  spot  East  African  and  Ethiopian  and  some  Brazils  ,  they  said  ,  adding  that  some  high  grade  robustas  also  met  some  demand  .  Sporadic  business  was  noted  in  the  second  hand  which  offered  Kenya  coffee  for  May  /  June  shipment  up  to  25  dlrs  below  origin  levels  .  Roasters  are  said  to  be  well  covered  and  are  not  expected  to  enter  the  market  for  larger  purchases  in  the  near  term  .  COFFEE  TALKS  COLLAPSE  EASES  NEED  FOR  U  .  S  .  BILL  The  collapse  of  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  talks  on  export  quotas  yesterday  removes  the  immediate  need  to  reinstate  U  .  S  .  legislation  allowing  the  customs  service  to  monitor  coffee  imports  ,  analysts  here  said  .  The  Reagan  administration  proposed  in  trade  legislation  offered  Congress  last  month  that  authority  to  monitor  coffee  imports  be  resumed  .  That  authority  lapsed  in  September  1986  .  A  bill  also  was  introduced  by  Rep  .  Frank  Guarini  (  D  -  N  .  J  .).  However  ,  the  failure  of  the  ICO  talks  in  London  to  reach  agreement  on  export  quotas  means  the  U  .  S  .  legislation  is  not  immediately  needed  ,  one  analyst  said  .  Earlier  supporters  of  the  coffee  bill  hoped  it  could  be  passed  by  Congress  quickly  .  "  You  '  re  going  to  have  a  hard  time  convincing  Congress  (  now  )  this  is  an  urgent  issue  ,"  the  coffee  analyst  said  .  U  .  S  .  SEES  NO  NEW  COFFEE  AGREEMENT  TALKS  SOON  The  United  States  does  not  expect  the  executive  board  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  to  call  for  a  new  round  of  negotiations  on  reinstating  coffee  quotas  ,  a  U  .  S  .  government  official  said  .  The  official  ,  a  member  of  the  U  .  S  .  delegation  to  ICO  talks  earlier  this  year  ,  said  no  new  coffee  agreement  talks  are  expected  because  there  is  no  indication  the  negotiating  positions  of  major  producers  and  consumers  have  changed  .  The  U  .  S  .  still  demands  ,  as  a  condition  of  reimposition  of  coffee  quotas  ,  that  "  objective  criteria  "  be  set  for  establishing  quotas  ,  said  the  U  .  S  .  official  ,  who  asked  not  to  be  identified  .  Brazil  ,  the  major  producer  ,  insists  on  quotas  based  on  a  traditional  formula  .  The  U  .  S  .  remains  open  to  a  negotiating  meeting  but  only  if  some  new  flexibility  is  apparent  from  major  countries  ,  the  official  said  .  The  ICO  executive  board  meets  tomorrow  in  London  .  ICO  BOARD  SEEN  UNLIKELY  TO  SET  NEW  COFFEE  TALKS  Chances  that  the  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  executive  board  meeting  this  week  will  agree  to  resume  negotiations  on  export  quotas  soon  look  remote  ,  ICO  delegates  and  trade  sources  said  .  ICO  observers  doubted  Brazil  or  key  consuming  countries  are  ready  to  give  sufficient  ground  to  convince  the  other  side  that  reopening  negotiations  again  would  be  worthwhile  ,  they  said  .  ICO  talks  on  quotas  last  month  broke  down  after  eight  days  when  producers  and  consumers  failed  to  reach  agreement  .  "  Since  we  have  not  seen  signs  of  change  in  other  positions  ,  it  '  s  difficult  to  see  a  positive  outcome  at  this  stage  ,"  Brazilian  delegate  Lindenberg  Sette  said  .  But  quotas  must  be  negotiated  sometime  ,  he  said  .  The  U  .  S  .  has  indicated  it  is  open  to  dialogue  on  quotas  but  that  Brazil  must  be  flexible  ,  rather  than  refuse  to  lower  its  export  share  as  it  did  in  the  last  negotiations  ,  delegates  said  .  At  this  week  '  s  March  31  -  April  2  meeting  ,  the  16  -  member  ICO  board  is  scheduled  to  discuss  the  current  market  situation  ,  the  reintroduction  of  quotas  ,  verification  of  stocks  and  some  administrative  matters  ,  according  to  a  draft  agenda  .  The  fact  that  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  president  Jorio  Dauster  ,  Assistant  U  .  S  .  Trade  Representative  Jon  Rosenbaum  and  chief  Colombian  delegate  Jorge  Cardenas  are  not  attending  the  meeting  has  signalled  to  most  market  watchers  that  it  will  be  a  non  -  event  as  far  as  negotiating  quotas  is  concerned  .  "  I  would  imagine  there  will  be  a  lot  of  politicking  among  producers  behind  closed  doors  to  work  up  some  kind  of  proposal  by  September  (  the  next  scheduled  council  meeting  ),"  Bronwyn  Curtis  of  Landell  Mills  Commodities  Studies  said  .  Traders  and  delegates  said  they  have  seen  no  sign  that  a  date  will  be  set  for  an  earlier  council  meeting  .  If  the  stalemate  continues  much  longer  ,  analysts  expect  the  coffee  agreement  will  end  up  operating  without  quotas  for  the  remainder  of  its  life  ,  to  September  30  ,  1989  .  When  talks  broke  down  ,  the  U  .  S  .  and  Brazil  ,  the  largest  coffee  consumer  and  producer  respectively  ,  blamed  one  another  for  sabotaging  negotiations  by  refusing  to  compromise  .  Brazil  wanted  to  maintain  the  previous  export  quota  shares  ,  under  which  it  was  allocated  30  pct  of  world  coffee  exports  ,  but  consumers  and  a  small  group  of  producers  pressed  for  shares  to  be  redistributed  using  "  objective  criteria  ,"  which  would  have  threatened  Brazil  '  s  share  .  At  a  recent  meeting  in  Managua  of  Latin  American  producers  ,  Costa  Rica  and  Honduras  said  they  were  willing  to  put  their  objections  as  members  of  the  group  of  eight  ICO  "  dissident  "  producers  aside  ,  in  order  to  stem  the  damaging  decline  in  prices  ,  Nicaraguan  External  Trade  Minister  Alejandro  Martinez  Cuenca  told  reporters  Saturday  .  He  was  in  London  to  brief  producers  on  the  Managua  meeting  .  However  ,  other  producers  said  they  were  not  aware  of  this  move  toward  producer  solidarity  .  London  coffee  prices  closed  at  1  ,  276  stg  a  tonne  today  ,  down  from  around  1  ,  550  at  the  beginning  of  March  .  IBC  EXPECTED  TO  MAINTAIN  COFFEE  EXPORT  FORMULA  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  is  expected  to  maintain  its  previous  pricing  system  when  it  reopens  export  registrations  ,  probably  later  this  week  ,  exporters  said  .  They  said  IBC  President  Jorio  Dauster  is  likely  to  leave  the  basic  formula  for  the  minimum  registration  price  unchanged  but  raise  the  contribution  quota  to  partially  offset  the  effects  of  cruzado  devaluation  since  April  registrations  were  closed  in  mid  -  February  .  To  fully  compensate  for  devaluation  the  quota  would  have  to  be  around  28  dlrs  per  bag  against  7  .  0  when  registrations  closed  .  However  ,  even  a  21  dlr  per  bag  rise  in  the  contribution  quota  would  make  Brazil  coffees  uncompetitive  on  world  markets  ,  and  an  increase  to  around  15  dlrs  a  bag  is  more  likely  ,  the  exporters  said  .  They  added  that  Dauster  is  keen  to  raise  the  contribution  quota  as  the  Institute  needs  money  to  repay  Central  Governmnet  funds  released  to  finance  IBC  purchases  at  the  guaranteed  producer  price  .  Although  a  vote  in  the  Monetary  Council  to  provide  more  funds  for  such  purchases  was  deferred  on  technical  grounds  last  week  ,  funds  are  still  being  released  for  subsequent  approval  .  The  sources  said  it  is  still  unclear  when  registrations  will  be  reopened  ,  although  most  expect  it  to  be  by  the  end  of  this  week  .  "  Brazil  owes  it  to  its  customers  to  make  its  intentions  know  .  A  country  like  Brazil  cannot  afford  to  be  permanently  closed  down  ,"  one  exporter  said  .  However  ,  before  announcing  its  export  policy  the  IBC  is  likely  to  wait  to  see  if  tomorrow  '  s  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  ,  ICO  ,  executive  board  in  London  decides  to  call  a  full  council  meeting  to  discuss  reintroduction  of  export  quotas  ,  sources  said  .  There  is  also  talk  of  the  announcement  this  week  of  new  measures  to  adjust  the  Brazilian  economy  ,  and  the  IBC  could  be  awaiting  clarification  before  making  any  move  ,  the  exporters  said  .  Another  factor  which  could  be  delaying  the  opening  of  registrations  is  the  current  strike  by  bank  workers  which  ,  while  not  affecting  current  shipments  ,  could  affect  documentation  and  currency  operations  for  new  sales  .  This  would  certainly  be  the  case  if  the  IBC  was  considering  obliging  exporters  to  pay  the  contribution  quota  within  two  or  three  days  of  registering  a  sale  .  INDIA  REDUCES  EXPORT  DUTY  ON  COFFEE  India  cut  the  export  duty  on  coffee  to  330  rupees  per  100  kg  from  600  rupees  ,  effective  March  23  ,  a  Coffee  Board  official  said  .  The  reduction  should  help  India  reach  its  coffee  export  target  of  90  ,  000  tonnes  in  fiscal  1987  /  88  ending  March  31  ,  against  provisionally  estimated  exports  of  75  ,  000  tonnes  in  1986  /  87  and  an  actual  99  ,  254  tonnes  in  1985  /  86  ,  he  said  .  India  is  likely  to  press  for  international  export  quotas  at  a  meeting  of  coffee  producers  in  London  this  week  because  of  depressed  prices  ,  he  added  .  The  International  Coffee  Organisation  ,  which  represents  both  consumers  and  producers  ,  has  so  far  failed  to  reach  agreement  on  quotas  .  India  feels  it  will  be  useful  to  have  quotas  now  because  the  slide  in  prices  is  unlikely  to  be  halted  immediately  ,  he  said  .  Export  quotas  were  suspended  in  February  1986  when  market  prices  surged  after  a  drought  devastated  Brazil  '  s  coffee  crop  .  COMMODITY  PACTS  MORE  ORIENTED  TOWARDS  MARKET  Consuming  countries  ,  chastened  by  the  collapse  of  International  Tin  Council  (  ITC  )  price  support  operations  in  1985  ,  are  insisting  more  than  ever  before  that  commodity  pacts  reflect  the  reality  of  the  markets  they  are  serving  ,  a  Reuter  survey  showed  .  They  want  price  ranges  to  be  more  responsive  to  market  trends  -  to  avoid  overstimulating  output  and  straining  the  accords  '  support  operations  -  and  intervention  rules  that  avoid  the  risk  of  exports  by  non  -  members  undermining  the  pacts  .  Consumers  and  producers  ,  mindful  of  ITC  buffer  stock  losses  ,  have  also  sought  strict  conditions  for  buffer  operations  .  Importers  and  some  key  exporting  countries  have  shunned  a  generalised  approach  to  commodity  price  stabilisation  and  prefer  to  assess  each  commodity  case  by  case  ,  the  survey  showed  .  The  International  Cocoa  Organization  (  ICCO  )  last  week  set  precise  limits  on  what  the  Buffer  Stock  Manager  (  BSM  )  could  do  under  the  new  agreement  .  It  imposed  daily  and  weekly  purchase  limits  ,  prohibited  the  BSM  from  operating  on  futures  markets  and  stipulated  ,  after  consumer  insistence  ,  that  up  to  15  pct  of  total  buffer  stock  purchases  could  be  of  non  -  member  cocoa  .  This  will  help  prevent  lower  quality  cocoa  from  Malaysia  ,  the  world  '  s  fourth  largest  producer  ,  undermining  the  market  .  The  cocoa  pact  establishes  precise  differentials  the  Buffer  Stock  Manager  must  use  when  purchasing  varying  grades  .  A  new  International  Natural  Rubber  Agreement  (  INRA  )  was  adopted  earlier  this  month  in  Geneva  .  Importing  and  exporting  countries  agreed  several  changes  to  make  the  reference  price  more  responsive  to  market  trends  and  they  eliminated  provisions  under  which  the  buffer  stock  could  borrow  from  banks  to  finance  operations  .  Direct  cash  contributions  from  members  will  fund  buffer  stock  purchases  .  Bank  financing  was  a  particular  feature  of  the  failed  ITC  buffer  stock  which  suffered  losses  running  into  hundreds  of  millions  of  sterling  .  Legal  wrangles  continue  .  Recent  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  negotiations  in  London  exemplified  the  degree  to  which  consumers  insist  that  agreements  reflect  market  reality  ,  commodity  analysts  said  .  Consumers  and  a  small  group  of  producers  argued  that  "  objective  criteria  "  should  be  used  to  define  export  quota  shares  ,  which  would  have  meant  a  reduction  in  the  share  of  Brazil  ,  the  world  '  s  leading  producer  .  Brazil  wanted  to  maintain  its  previous  quota  share  of  30  pct  .  The  talks  broke  down  and  ,  although  an  ICO  executive  board  meeting  starts  in  London  today  ,  delegates  and  trade  sources  see  chances  of  any  near  term  negotiations  on  export  quota  distribution  as  remote  .  International  agreements  exist  for  sugar  and  wheat  .  These  do  not  have  any  economic  clauses  but  provide  a  forum  for  discussions  on  possible  future  economic  agreements  ,  collect  statistics  and  draw  up  market  analyses  .  Analysts  said  differences  between  sugar  exporting  countries  have  held  up  any  progress  towards  an  accord  with  economic  teeth  ,  while  sheer  competition  between  major  exporters  amid  a  world  grain  glut  militate  against  any  pact  with  economic  provisions  for  wheat  .  An  alternative  focus  for  commodity  discussions  are  international  study  groups  ,  made  up  of  governments  with  advice  from  industry  ,  such  as  those  for  lead  and  zinc  and  rubber  .  The  U  .  N  .  Common  fund  for  commodities  ,  with  a  planned  directly  contributed  capital  of  470  mln  dlrs  ,  has  failed  to  become  operational  because  neither  the  U  .  S  .  Nor  the  Soviet  Union  has  ratified  it  .  U  .  S  .  Officials  in  Washington  said  the  U  .  S  .  Doubts  the  fund  would  be  able  to  fulfil  its  objectives  ,  citing  the  lack  of  widespread  support  .  U  .  S  .  Officials  in  Washington  and  Malaysian  officials  in  Kuala  Lumpur  expressed  a  policy  of  looking  at  each  commodity  pact  case  by  case  .  U  .  S  .  Officials  said  it  has  been  willing  to  study  individual  cases  for  economically  sound  ,  market  -  oriented  commodity  accords  balancing  producer  and  consumer  interests  .  "  We  see  little  to  be  gained  by  attempting  to  increase  the  price  of  a  commodity  whose  long  -  term  trend  is  downward  ,"  official  Administration  policy  states  .  The  U  .  S  .  Currently  belongs  to  only  two  international  commodity  agreements  that  have  economic  clauses  -  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  (  ICA  )  and  INRA  -  but  it  is  also  a  member  of  the  sugar  and  wheat  pacts  .  The  U  .  S  .  Did  not  join  the  International  Cocoa  Agreement  because  it  considered  its  proposed  price  ranges  unrealistic  and  not  designed  to  protect  the  interests  of  consuming  countries  ,  the  State  Department  said  .  U  .  S  .  Officials  singled  out  the  INRA  as  the  one  commodity  agreement  that  seems  to  be  working  .  U  .  S  .  Negotiators  were  successful  in  getting  other  members  of  the  pact  to  agree  that  the  price  review  and  adjustment  mechanism  of  the  rubber  agreement  would  accurately  reflect  market  trends  and  also  to  continue  the  accord  as  a  market  oriented  agreement  ,  U  .  S  .  Officials  said  .  Canadian  officials  in  Ottawa  also  said  they  have  consistently  tried  to  look  at  membership  of  commodity  pacts  on  the  merits  of  each  case  .  Malaysian  Primary  Industries  Minister  Lim  Keng  Yaik  told  Reuters  in  Kuala  Lumpur  his  country  ,  the  world  '  s  top  producer  of  rubber  ,  tin  and  palm  oil  ,  decides  its  participation  in  international  commodity  pacts  case  by  case  .  Malaysia  is  a  member  of  the  Association  of  Tin  Producing  Countries  (  ATPC  )  which  produce  65  pct  of  world  tin  .  The  ATPC  launched  a  plan  to  limit  member  tin  exports  to  96  ,  000  tonnes  for  a  year  from  March  to  cut  the  tin  surplus  to  50  ,  000  from  70  ,  000  .  Economist  in  the  West  German  Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  delegate  to  cocoa  ,  wheat  and  sugar  agreements  Peter  Baron  told  Reuters  in  London  ,  "  Agreements  with  economic  clauses  to  stabilise  prices  could  function  if  fixed  price  ranges  were  close  to  market  reality  ,  if  there  was  full  participation  by  producers  and  consumers  ,  and  if  participants  were  prepared  to  take  their  obligations  in  the  framework  of  the  agreement  seriously  ."  But  Baron  added  ,  "  No  real  sanctions  are  available  for  a  country  that  doesn  '  t  stick  to  its  obligations  ...  The  German  approach  is  sceptical  .  We  don  '  t  think  agreements  are  the  best  instrument  to  help  developing  countries  .  They  were  never  meant  to  be  a  vehicle  for  the  transfer  of  resources  and  that  is  how  developing  countries  often  interpret  them  ."  Traditionally  Britain  has  always  been  supportive  of  commodity  agreements  ,  reflecting  its  strong  links  with  Third  World  producing  countries  .  But  recently  demands  for  more  stringent  and  justifiable  pacts  with  emphasis  placed  on  the  need  for  "  intellectual  honesty  "  and  "  objective  criteria  "  have  grown  .  British  officials  stress  the  need  for  commodity  pacts  to  be  a  two  way  partnership  in  trade  rather  than  a  disguise  for  aid  .  It  is  now  seen  as  essential  that  any  pacts  involving  direct  market  participation  through  a  buffer  stock  have  a  high  degree  of  transparency  and  do  not  contain  the  risk  of  open  -  ended  borrowing  that  occurred  in  the  tin  pact  ,  they  said  .  U  .  K  .  Delegates  talk  of  stabilisation  and  the  need  for  prices  to  reflect  changes  in  market  structure  and  price  trends  rather  than  dictate  what  prices  should  be  .  A  Foreign  Ministry  official  in  Tokyo  said  Japan  urges  price  realism  in  commodity  pacts  ,  adding  high  prices  inflate  supply  .  A  government  spokesman  in  Paris  said  France  is  favourable  to  commodity  pacts  .  France  ,  a  large  consumer  and  producer  of  sugar  ,  favours  a  sugar  pact  as  long  as  it  reflects  the  real  market  situation  ,  particularly  regarding  stocks  .  Indonesia  '  s  Foreign  Minister  Mochtar  Kusumaatmadja  told  Reuters  in  Jakarta  :  "  These  agreements  can  work  as  long  as  the  problems  are  cyclical  ..  But  it  '  s  another  matter  when  there  are  structural  problems  ..  But  we  are  still  committed  to  commodity  agreements  as  an  act  of  faith  ."  Nicaraguan  External  Trade  Minister  Alejandro  Martinez  Cuenca  said  in  London  producers  cannot  afford  not  to  give  their  backing  to  commodity  agreements  .  "  The  political  will  is  not  there  on  the  part  of  some  consumers  to  make  agreements  work  ,"  Martinez  Cuenca  said  .  The  head  of  the  economics  department  in  the  Brazilian  Foreign  Ministry  ,  Sebastiao  do  Rego  Barros  ,  told  Reuters  an  agreement  can  be  successful  if  it  keeps  a  link  with  market  reality  .  If  you  have  an  agreement  such  as  coffee  with  a  system  of  quotas  ,  with  a  link  between  prices  practised  inside  the  pact  and  actual  market  prices  ,  it  can  work  .  UNCTAD  spokesman  Graham  Shanley  said  consuming  countries  realise  steady  export  earnings  enhance  developing  countries  '  ability  to  service  debt  and  mean  greater  demand  for  industrialised  nations  '  capital  goods  .  ICO  BOARD  PASSES  OVER  COFFEE  QUOTA  ISSUE  Executive  board  members  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  passed  over  the  issue  of  export  quota  negotiations  at  its  regular  meeting  here  ,  delegates  said  .  No  move  was  made  to  reopen  dialogue  on  export  quotas  and  no  further  discussion  on  the  issue  is  likely  during  the  three  -  day  talks  ,  they  said  .  Producer  and  consumer  members  of  the  ICO  council  failed  to  agree  export  quota  shares  in  early  March  .  Neither  Brazil  ,  the  largest  producer  ,  nor  the  U  .  S  .,  the  largest  consumer  ,  are  ready  to  be  flexible  ,  delegates  said  .  "  The  situation  is  unchanged  ,"  consumer  spokesman  Abraham  Van  Overbeeke  told  reporters  .  "  As  long  as  Brazil  sticks  to  its  position  there  will  not  be  quotas  --  there  is  no  point  in  meeting  ."  At  the  last  council  meeting  ,  Brazil  wanted  to  maintain  its  previous  quota  share  of  around  30  pct  of  the  market  .  Consumers  and  a  splinter  group  of  eight  producers  favoured  redistribution  of  export  shares  using  "  objective  criteria  ,"  which  would  likely  have  reduced  Brazil  '  s  share  .  Brazilian  delegate  Lindenberg  Sette  said  that  ,  if  quota  negotiations  were  to  resume  ,  the  1  .  0  mln  bag  shortfall  Brazil  was  willing  to  give  up  in  early  March  if  the  producer  proposal  was  accepted  would  no  longer  be  on  the  table  .  "  As  we  said  from  the  start  ...  No  agreement  ,  no  one  million  bags  ,"  he  told  Reuters  .  Shortfalls  of  200  ,  000  bags  offered  by  OAMCAF  ,  the  African  and  Malagasy  Coffee  Organization  ,  and  20  ,  000  bags  offered  by  Angola  ,  are  also  no  longer  valid  ,  delegates  said  .  The  closest  the  board  came  to  discussing  quotas  was  a  briefing  by  the  Guatemalan  ICO  delegate  Rene  Montes  on  a  recent  Latin  American  producers  meeting  in  Managua  ,  delegates  said  .  There  ,  the  producers  expressed  their  political  will  to  negotiate  basic  quotas  ,  particularly  in  the  face  of  the  damaging  drop  in  coffee  prices  after  the  council  failed  to  agree  quotas  ,  Montes  said  .  The  ICO  board  also  reviewed  export  statistics  and  stock  verification  .  They  expected  talks  on  stock  verification  to  take  up  the  remainder  of  today  '  s  session  ,  delegates  said  .  CSCE  RESTRUCTURES  COFFEE  FUTURES  DAILY  LIMITS  The  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  has  expanded  the  normal  daily  trading  limit  in  Coffee  "  C  "  contracts  to  6  .  0  cents  a  lb  ,  from  the  previous  4  .  0  cents  ,  effective  today  ,  the  CSCE  said  .  The  new  daily  limits  apply  to  all  but  the  two  nearby  positions  ,  currently  May  and  July  ,  which  trade  without  limits  .  In  addition  ,  the  6  .  0  cent  limit  can  be  increased  to  9  .  0  cents  a  lb  if  the  first  two  limited  months  both  make  limit  moves  in  the  same  direction  for  two  consecutive  sessions  ,  according  to  the  CSCE  announcement  .  Before  the  rule  change  today  ,  the  CSCE  required  two  days  of  limit  moves  in  the  first  three  restricted  contracts  before  expanding  the  daily  trading  limit  .  Under  new  guidelines  ,  if  the  first  two  restricted  deliveries  move  the  6  .  0  cent  limit  for  two  days  the  Exchange  will  expand  the  limit  .  The  expanded  9  .  0  cent  limit  will  remain  in  effect  until  the  settling  prices  on  both  of  the  first  two  limited  months  has  not  moved  by  more  than  the  normal  6  .  0  cent  limit  for  other  contracts  in  two  successive  trading  sessions  ,  the  CSCE  said  .  GUATEMALA  TO  HOST  OTHER  MILDS  COFFEE  MEETING  Guatemala  will  host  a  meeting  of  other  milds  coffee  producers  probably  in  May  to  discuss  basic  export  quotas  ,  the  Guatemalan  delegate  to  the  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  said  .  No  firm  date  has  been  set  for  the  talks  ,  Ambassador  Rene  Montes  told  reporters  at  the  ICO  executive  board  meeting  here  .  Producer  countries  Brazil  ,  Colombia  ,  and  a  member  of  OAMCAF  ,  the  African  and  Malagasy  Coffee  Organization  ,  may  also  be  invited  for  consultation  ,  he  said  .  ICO  producers  and  consumers  could  not  agree  on  how  to  calculate  export  quota  shares  at  a  recent  council  meeting  here  .  Other  milds  coffee  producers  include  Costa  Rica  ,  Dominican  Republic  ,  Ecuador  ,  El  Salvador  ,  Guatemala  ,  Honduras  ,  India  ,  Mexico  ,  Nicaragua  ,  Papua  New  Guinea  ,  and  Peru  .  CSCE  ALTERS  RULES  ON  TRADING  LIMITS  The  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  amended  regulations  governing  expanded  trading  limits  on  coffee  ,  cocoa  and  sugar  contracts  to  provide  uniformity  .  Effective  today  ,  the  exchange  will  permit  normal  daily  price  limits  in  those  commodities  to  expand  whenever  the  first  two  limited  contract  months  move  the  limit  in  the  same  direction  for  two  consecutive  sessions  .  The  normal  daily  limits  will  be  reinstated  once  the  first  two  limited  deliveries  close  by  less  than  the  normal  limit  for  two  successive  trading  days  .  Previously  exchange  rules  required  the  first  three  limited  months  to  move  the  limit  in  coffee  and  cocoa  .  It  had  required  the  first  two  limited  sugar  deliveries  to  make  such  moves  for  three  consecutive  sessions  .  SINGAPORE  '  S  UIC  TO  BUY  INTO  TECK  HOCK  COFFEE  FIRM  Singapore  '  s  United  Industrial  Corp  Ltd  (  UIC  )  has  agreed  in  principle  to  inject  16  mln  dlrs  in  convertible  loan  stock  into  &  lt  ;  Teck  Hock  and  Co  (  Pte  )  Ltd  >,  a  creditor  bank  official  said  .  UIC  is  likely  to  take  a  controlling  stake  in  the  troubled  international  coffee  trading  firm  ,  but  plans  are  not  finalised  and  negotiations  will  continue  for  another  two  weeks  ,  he  said  .  Teck  Hock  '  s  nine  creditor  banks  have  agreed  to  extend  the  company  '  s  loan  repayment  period  for  10  years  although  a  percentage  of  the  new  capital  injection  will  be  used  to  pay  off  part  of  the  debt  .  Teck  Hock  owes  more  than  100  mln  Singapore  dlrs  and  since  last  December  the  banks  have  been  allowing  the  company  to  postpone  loan  repayments  while  they  try  to  find  an  investor  .  The  nine  banks  are  Oversea  -  Chinese  Banking  Corp  Ltd  ,  United  Overseas  Bank  Ltd  ,  Banque  Paribas  ,  Bangkok  Bank  Ltd  ,  Citibank  N  .  A  .,  Standard  Chartered  Bank  Ltd  ,  Algemene  Bank  Nederland  NV  ,  Banque  Nationale  de  Paris  and  Chase  Manhattan  Bank  NA  .  ICO  COFFEE  PRODUCERS  TO  DISCUSS  MARKET  SITUATION  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  producers  will  meet  at  1500  GMT  (  0900  est  )  for  a  general  discussion  of  the  market  situation  ,  producer  spokesman  Lindenberg  Sette  said  .  The  Brazilian  delegate  said  several  producers  requested  the  meeting  but  Brazil  was  not  among  them  .  The  ICO  executive  board  '  s  regular  session  this  week  has  so  far  been  confined  to  routine  matters  ,  with  no  attempt  by  producers  or  consumers  to  revive  export  quota  negotiations  ,  delegates  said  .  Talks  to  restore  quotas  collapsed  early  last  month  when  producers  and  consumers  failed  to  resolve  differences  on  how  quotas  should  be  allocated  .  Producer  delegates  said  there  was  no  sense  of  urgency  among  producers  to  reopen  quota  talks  with  consumers  ,  with  most  countries  now  prepared  to  wait  for  the  ICO  '  s  annual  September  council  session  to  restart  negotiations  .  Members  of  the  Inter  -  African  Coffee  Organization  called  for  today  '  s  producer  meeting  to  exchange  views  on  the  market  situation  ,  the  producer  delegates  said  .  The  lack  of  a  new  debate  on  export  quotas  here  this  week  was  cited  as  the  reason  for  renewed  weakness  in  coffee  prices  in  London  and  New  York  futures  ,  traders  said  .  Near  May  in  London  hit  a  five  -  year  low  this  morning  at  1  ,  220  stg  ,  about  50  stg  below  last  night  '  s  close  ,  they  said  .  The  executive  board  session  looks  set  to  end  today  ,  following  a  final  session  at  1600  GMT  (  1000  est  )  when  a  consultancy  report  of  the  operation  of  the  ICO  will  be  presented  to  producers  and  consumers  ,  delegates  added  .  KENYAN  MINISTER  FORECASTS  ECONOMIC  EXPANSION  Kenya  '  s  economy  will  continue  to  expand  this  year  and  the  government  will  do  more  to  encourage  investment  by  foreign  firms  and  the  local  private  sector  ,  Planning  Minister  Robert  Ouko  said  .  He  told  a  news  conference  that  the  government  would  soon  create  a  special  bureau  to  expedite  processing  of  investment  applications  by  local  and  foreign  investors  .  Praising  the  role  of  multinational  companies  and  local  entrepreneurs  in  Kenya  '  s  economy  ,  the  minister  promised  to  maintain  a  close  working  contact  with  the  private  sector  .  The  economy  grew  by  5  .  3  pct  last  year  ,  up  from  4  .  1  pct  in  1985  ,  Ouko  said  .  This  was  owing  to  high  prices  for  the  country  '  s  coffee  exports  ,  low  oil  prices  ,  low  inflation  and  rising  real  incomes  ,  he  added  .  "  Despite  rising  petroleum  prices  and  falling  coffee  prices  ,  Kenya  '  s  economy  is  still  expected  to  improve  in  1987  ,"  the  planning  minister  said  .  "  High  aggregate  demand  arising  from  low  inflation  ,  trade  liberalisation  and  disciplined  financial  management  are  expected  to  increase  output  in  the  manufacturing  sector  ,"  he  said  .  Agriculture  would  expand  significantly  if  favourable  weather  continued  and  farmers  responded  to  producer  price  rises  announced  in  February  ,  the  minister  added  .  Kenyan  farmers  are  anxiously  awaiting  the  arrival  of  the  long  rainy  season  ,  which  is  due  to  start  about  now  .  Ouko  said  the  production  of  Kenya  '  s  main  cash  crops  increased  during  the  second  half  of  last  year  .  Coffee  deliveries  to  the  state  -  run  Coffee  Board  of  Kenya  rose  17  pct  and  tea  deliveries  rose  four  pct  during  the  period  ,  he  said  .  Ouko  paid  tribute  to  the  private  sector  for  its  contribution  to  the  economy  and  promised  to  improve  government  cooperation  with  businessmen  by  maintaining  regular  contact  with  them  .  "  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  private  sector  for  its  contribution  to  the  economy  in  1986  and  challenge  it  to  maintain  the  same  spirit  this  year  ...  The  manufacturing  sector  grew  by  an  estimated  5  .  8  pct  in  1986  ,  in  line  with  the  same  period  the  previous  year  ,"  he  said  .  Ouko  said  the  "  one  stop  "  bureau  was  intended  to  stimulate  investment  and  cut  the  time  and  bureacracy  currently  involved  in  processing  applications  .  The  planning  minister  presented  a  review  of  the  Kenyan  economy  during  the  second  half  of  1986  which  showed  inflation  falling  to  4  .  3  pct  from  10  .  2  a  year  earlier  .  This  was  owing  to  higher  agricultural  production  and  the  Kenyan  shilling  '  s  relative  strength  against  other  major  currencies  ,  the  report  said  .  The  average  exchange  rate  was  16  .  23  shillings  per  U  .  S  .  Dlr  last  year  ,  a  fall  of  only  1  .  2  pct  from  16  .  432  in  1985  .  The  half  yearly  report  said  exports  increased  about  30  pct  in  July  -  December  1986  ,  while  imports  rose  by  only  six  pct  during  the  period  .  This  gave  Kenya  an  overall  balance  of  payments  surplus  of  780  mln  Kenya  shillings  (  48  mln  dlrs  )  during  the  period  ,  compared  with  a  1  .  4  billion  shilling  (  87  mln  dlr  )  deficit  in  the  second  half  of  1985  ,  it  said  .  KENYAN  MINISTER  FORECASTS  ECONOMIC  EXPANSION  Kenya  '  s  economy  will  continue  to  expand  this  year  and  the  government  will  do  more  to  encourage  investment  by  foreign  firms  and  the  local  private  sector  ,  Planning  Minister  Robert  Ouko  said  .  He  told  a  news  conference  that  the  government  would  soon  create  a  special  bureau  to  expedite  processing  of  investment  applications  by  local  and  foreign  investors  .  Praising  the  role  of  multinational  companies  and  local  entrepreneurs  in  Kenya  '  s  economy  ,  the  minister  promised  to  maintain  a  close  working  contact  with  the  private  sector  .  The  economy  grew  by  5  .  3  pct  last  year  ,  up  from  4  .  1  pct  in  1985  ,  Ouko  said  .  This  was  owing  to  high  prices  for  the  country  '  s  coffee  exports  ,  low  oil  prices  ,  low  inflation  and  rising  real  incomes  ,  he  added  .  "  Despite  rising  petroleum  prices  and  falling  coffee  prices  ,  Kenya  '  s  economy  is  still  expected  to  improve  in  1987  ,"  the  planning  minister  said  .  Agriculture  would  expand  significantly  if  favourable  weather  continued  and  farmers  responded  to  producer  price  rises  announced  in  February  ,  the  minister  added  .  Kenyan  farmers  are  anxiously  awaiting  the  arrival  of  the  long  rainy  season  ,  which  is  due  to  start  about  now  .  Ouko  said  the  production  of  Kenya  '  s  main  cash  crops  increased  during  the  second  half  of  last  year  .  Coffee  deliveries  to  the  state  -  run  Coffee  Board  of  Kenya  rose  17  pct  and  tea  deliveries  rose  four  pct  during  the  period  ,  he  said  .  RESTORATION  OF  COFFEE  EXPORT  QUOTAS  BEFORE  OCTOBER  SEEMS  UNLIKELY  -  ICO  PRODUCER  DELEGATES  RESTORATION  OF  COFFEE  EXPORT  QUOTAS  BEFORE  OCTOBER  SEEMS  UNLIKELY  -  ICO  PRODUCER  DELEGATES  ICO  QUOTAS  BEFORE  OCTOBER  UNLIKELY  -  DELEGATES  The  restoration  of  coffee  export  quotas  before  the  end  of  the  current  1986  /  87  coffee  year  (  Oct  1  /  Sept  30  )  now  seems  unlikely  ,  given  reluctance  by  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  producers  and  consumers  to  resume  negotiations  on  an  interim  quota  accord  ,  producer  delegates  told  reporters  .  Consumers  and  most  producers  see  no  point  in  reopening  the  quota  dialogue  while  Brazil  '  s  position  remains  unchanged  ,  they  said  .  Brazil  '  s  refusal  to  accept  a  reduction  in  its  previous  30  pct  share  of  the  ICO  '  s  global  export  quota  effectively  torpedoed  talks  here  last  month  aimed  at  restoring  quotas  before  October  ,  the  delegates  noted  .  Disappointment  at  the  lack  of  progress  on  quotas  forced  coffee  futures  in  London  and  New  York  to  new  lows  today  ,  traders  here  said  .  Near  May  in  New  York  fell  below  one  dlr  in  early  trading  at  around  99  .  10  cents  per  pound  ,  traders  said  .  Producer  delegates  said  that  while  the  possibility  of  reimposing  quotas  before  October  remained  on  the  ICO  agenda  ,  in  practice  the  idea  had  effectively  been  discarded  .  The  ICO  '  s  executive  board  session  here  this  week  has  so  far  barely  touched  on  the  quota  debate  ,  demonstrating  general  unwillingness  to  revive  talks  while  chances  of  success  are  still  remote  ,  producer  delegates  said  .  Some  producers  are  in  no  hurry  to  see  quotas  restored  ,  despite  the  price  collapse  seen  since  the  failure  of  last  month  '  s  negotiations  ,  they  said  .  "  With  Brazil  '  s  frost  season  approaching  ,  who  wants  to  negotiate  quotas  ,"  one  leading  producer  delegate  said  .  Coffee  prices  normally  rise  during  Brazil  '  s  frost  season  (  mainly  June  -  August  )  as  dealers  and  roasters  build  up  stocks  as  insurance  against  possible  severe  frost  damage  to  Brazil  '  s  crop  .  Many  producers  are  more  interested  in  working  towards  reimposing  quotas  from  October  1  ,  based  on  a  new  system  of  quota  allocations  valid  until  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  expires  in  1989  ,  they  said  .  Guatemala  has  already  proposed  the  "  other  oilds  "  producer  group  should  meet  in  the  next  two  months  to  begin  talks  on  how  to  allocate  quota  shares  .  Producers  still  seem  divided  on  how  to  overhaul  the  quota  distribution  system  ,  with  some  producer  delegates  reporting  growing  support  for  a  radical  reallocation  ,  based  on  the  principle  of  "  objective  criteria  "  favoured  by  consumers  .  At  last  month  '  s  council  session  a  splinter  group  of  small  producers  backed  consumer  demands  for  new  quota  shares  based  on  exportable  production  and  stocks  ,  while  Brazil  ,  Colombia  and  the  rest  of  the  producers  favoured  leaving  quota  allocations  unchanged  ,  except  for  some  temporary  adjustments  .  A  delegate  from  one  of  the  eight  said  more  producers  now  supported  their  cause  .  The  delegate  said  unless  major  producers  like  Brazil  showed  readiness  to  negotiate  new  quota  shares  ,  prospects  for  a  quota  accord  in  October  also  looked  bleak  .  The  U  .  S  .  and  most  other  consumers  are  still  determined  to  make  reimposition  of  quotas  conditional  on  a  redistribution  of  quota  shares  based  on  "  objective  criteria  ."  ICO  observers  remained  sceptical  that  Brazil  would  be  prepared  to  accept  a  quota  reduction  when  the  ICO  council  meets  in  September  .  Brazil  has  adopted  a  tough  stance  with  banks  on  external  debt  negotiations  and  is  likely  to  be  just  as  tough  on  coffee  ,  they  said  .  They  said  Brazil  '  s  reluctance  to  open  coffee  export  registrations  might  reflect  fears  this  would  provoke  another  price  slide  and  force  an  emergency  ICO  council  session  ,  which  would  most  likely  end  in  failure  .  Producers  met  this  afternoon  to  review  the  market  situation  but  had  only  a  general  discussion  about  how  further  negotiations  should  proceed  ,  a  producer  delegate  said  .  Producers  plan  to  hold  consultations  on  quotas  ,  and  then  may  set  a  date  for  a  formal  producer  meeting  ,  but  plans  are  not  fixed  ,  he  said  .  The  ICO  executive  board  reconvened  at  1650  hours  local  time  to  hear  a  report  from  consultants  on  ICO  operations  .  The  board  meeting  looks  set  to  end  today  ,  a  day  earlier  than  scheduled  ,  delegates  said  .  ICO  PACT  UNLIKELY  BY  AUTUMN  -  ITALIAN  ADVISER  The  prospects  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  reaching  an  agreement  on  coffee  export  quotas  before  September  appear  dim  ,  Alberto  Hesse  ,  former  president  of  the  European  Coffee  Federation  ,  said  .  "  There  is  no  real  goodwill  in  certain  delegations  to  go  to  quotas  ,"  Hesse  ,  who  advises  the  Italian  Foreign  Affairs  Ministry  on  coffee  issues  ,  told  Reuters  .  He  declined  to  name  the  delegations  .  A  special  meeting  between  importing  and  exporting  countries  ended  in  a  deadlock  late  yesterday  after  eight  days  of  talks  over  how  to  set  quotas  .  The  ICO  executive  board  will  meet  from  March  30  to  April  1  but  the  full  council  is  not  due  to  meet  again  until  September  .  "  I  am  not  optimistic  about  an  agreement  soon  ,"  Hesse  said  .  COLOMBIA  TRADERS  SAY  NEW  COFFEE  STRATEGY  VITAL  Coffee  producing  countries  must  quickly  map  out  a  fresh  common  strategy  following  the  failure  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  to  reach  agreement  on  export  quotas  ,  Gilberto  Arango  ,  president  of  Colombia  '  s  private  coffee  exporters  '  association  ,  said  .  Arango  told  Reuters  that  the  most  intelligent  thing  now  would  be  to  seek  a  unifying  stand  from  producers  ,  including  Brazil  ,  in  order  to  map  out  a  strategy  to  defend  prices  .  An  ICO  special  meeting  ended  last  night  in  London  with  exporting  and  consuming  nations  failing  to  agree  on  a  resumption  of  export  quotas  ,  suspended  one  year  ago  after  prices  soared  following  a  prolonged  drought  in  Brazil  .  Arango  said  there  would  be  no  imminent  catastrophe  but  predicted  that  over  the  short  term  prices  would  undoubtedly  plummet  .  However  ,  he  said  the  market  should  also  take  into  account  evident  factors  such  as  Brazil  '  s  low  stocks  and  the  sale  of  the  near  totality  of  the  Central  American  crop  .  Trade  sources  said  Colombia  '  s  coffee  was  today  quoted  at  1  .  14  dlrs  a  lb  in  New  York  ,  its  second  lowest  price  in  the  past  10  years  .  Cardenas  said  these  countries  apparently  fail  to  understand  the  true  impact  of  such  a  failure  for  coffee  producing  nations  as  well  as  for  industrialized  countries  .  It  is  difficult  to  believe  that  while  efforts  are  made  to  solve  the  problem  of  the  developing  world  '  s  external  debt  ,  decisions  are  being  taken  which  cut  earnings  used  for  repaying  those  debts  ,  he  said  .  "  In  Colombia  '  s  case  ,  we  watch  with  consternation  that  ,  while  we  try  to  effectively  combat  drug  trafficking  ,  countries  which  support  us  in  this  fight  seek  to  cut  our  jugular  vein  ,"  Cardenas  said  .  ICO  TALKS  SET  TO  END  WITH  NO  QUOTA  DEBATE  The  International  Coffee  Organization  executive  board  meeting  will  end  tomorrow  without  any  move  to  reopen  the  debate  on  restoring  coffee  export  quotas  ,  delegates  said  .  Talks  have  focused  on  administrative  matters  and  verification  of  stocks  in  producer  countries  ,  they  said  .  Producers  met  briefly  today  to  exchange  views  on  the  market  situation  but  there  seems  little  chance  discussion  on  quotas  will  begin  much  before  the  ICO  '  s  annual  council  session  in  September  ,  they  said  .  Delegates  earlier  thought  the  meeting  would  end  tonight  ,  but  a  further  session  is  scheduled  tomorrow  at  1030  GMT  to  complete  reports  on  stock  verification  .  Meantime  ,  the  executive  board  will  meet  May  12  to  discuss  possible  action  on  the  consultancy  report  on  the  ICO  presented  today  to  the  board  ,  consumer  delegates  said  .  NY  ANALYSTS  SEE  COFFEE  FUTURES  FALLING  FURTHER  New  York  coffee  futures  prices  will  probably  fall  to  about  85  cents  a  lb  in  the  next  month  before  a  consolidation  trend  sets  in  ,  according  to  market  analysts  .  Yesterday  ,  prices  for  the  spot  May  contract  fell  below  1  .  00  dlr  a  lb  for  the  first  time  since  August  1981  after  the  International  Coffee  Organization  did  not  place  new  export  quota  discussions  on  its  current  agenda  .  Talks  aimed  at  renegotiating  ICO  export  quotas  ,  after  five  years  of  price  -  supporting  agreements  ,  broke  down  in  February  .  "  Short  -  term  ,  it  looks  like  a  definite  test  of  90  cents  ,  perhaps  85  cents  ,"  said  William  O  '  Neill  ,  coffee  analyst  with  Elders  Futures  .  "  But  the  additional  downside  may  not  be  all  that  great  from  current  levels  ."  "  At  this  price  level  the  market  is  very  vulnerable  to  bullish  developments  ,"  O  '  Neill  added  .  "  Rather  than  us  having  a  market  that  will  plummet  we  '  ll  kind  of  see  prices  erode  --  probably  to  around  85  cents  ."  "  I  definitely  see  90  cents  and  would  not  rule  out  a  brief  drop  to  85  cents  ,"  said  Debra  Tropp  ,  a  coffee  analyst  with  Prudential  Bache  .  But  she  said  by  June  worries  about  a  freeze  in  Brazil  growing  areas  will  become  more  of  a  market  factor  ,  with  prices  likely  to  consolidate  ahead  of  that  time  .  A  trader  at  a  major  international  trade  house  ,  who  asked  not  to  be  named  ,  said  he  expects  a  10  cent  drop  near  term  but  believes  if  Brazil  opens  May  registrations  at  a  relatively  high  export  price  and  requires  a  high  contribution  quota  from  exporters  the  market  could  steady  at  the  lower  levels  .  Longer  term  ,  he  added  ,  producer  pressure  will  mount  on  Brazil  to  agree  to  consumers  '  export  quota  terms  ,  and  a  new  international  agreement  could  come  into  force  next  fall  .  Since  the  February  talks  broke  down  ,  the  market  has  fallen  from  about  130  .  00  cents  a  lb  to  a  low  of  98  .  10  cents  a  lb  today  ,  as  buyers  and  sellers  sought  to  reassess  supply  and  demand  .  Generally  ,  analysts  say  ,  producers  have  a  large  buildup  of  stocks  ,  but  U  .  S  .  roasters  have  drawn  down  supplies  and  will  need  to  do  some  buying  soon  .  "  Most  producing  nations  have  just  completed  or  are  about  to  complete  their  annual  harvests  and  exportable  supplies  are  at  their  seasonal  peak  .  Exports  remain  behind  year  ago  and  warehouses  in  producer  nations  are  becoming  increasingly  overburdened  ,"  said  Sandra  Kaul  ,  coffee  analyst  for  Shearson  Lehman  ,  in  that  firm  '  s  forthcoming  quarterly  coffee  report  .  Kaul  said  producers  '  need  to  procure  hard  currency  to  service  foreign  debt  will  put  further  pressure  on  them  to  sell  ,  and  "  this  should  keep  substantial  pressure  on  exporters  to  undertake  sales  despite  the  drop  in  prices  to  six  year  lows  ."  Kaul  believes  the  market  will  drop  to  80  cents  a  lb  before  Brazil  '  s  frost  season  begins  in  June  .  Accurate  assessments  of  roaster  demand  are  hard  to  come  by  ,  though  analysts  note  the  peak  winter  consumption  period  is  passed  and  demand  usually  slows  this  time  of  year  .  Shearson  '  s  Kaul  estimated  U  .  S  .  roaster  ending  stocks  as  of  January  31  ,  including  soluble  and  roasted  ,  at  6  .  3  mln  bags  compared  with  6  .  9  mln  at  end  -  September  1986  ,  a  small  drawdown  for  the  usually  busy  winter  roasting  season  .  But  Elders  O  '  Neill  said  ,  "  The  roasters  are  not  overstocked  by  any  means  ."  Analysts  said  picking  a  bottom  to  the  market  is  difficult  ,  given  the  fact  prices  have  fallen  into  uncharted  territory  below  the  long  -  term  support  at  1  .  00  dlr  per  lb  ,  and  several  traders  said  the  sidelines  might  be  preferable  for  the  short  term  .  COFFEE  FUTURES  AT  SIX  -  YEAR  LOW  ,  UNDER  1  DLR  /  LB  Coffee  futures  dipped  further  today  and  closed  below  1  dlr  a  pound  for  the  first  time  in  six  years  .  Coffee  for  delivery  in  May  ended  at  99  .  28  cents  a  pound  on  the  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  ,  down  0  .  76  cent  and  the  lowest  price  since  August  ,  1981  .  Prices  have  been  falling  steadily  since  the  International  Coffee  Organization  failed  in  February  to  reach  an  agreement  controlling  exports  by  its  members  ,  and  pressure  was  renewed  this  week  as  the  executive  board  of  the  organization  met  in  London  without  reopening  debate  on  its  export  quotas  .  The  executive  board  has  limited  its  current  discussions  to  administrative  matters  and  is  set  to  adourn  Thursday  .  Burdensome  supplies  have  pressed  the  market  down  from  1  .  30  dlr  a  pound  in  February  ,  when  the  organization  '  s  discussions  aimed  at  re  -  establishing  export  quotas  broke  down  .  Sandra  Kaul  ,  a  coffee  analyst  in  New  York  with  Shearson  Lehman  Brothers  ,  said  supplies  currently  are  at  their  high  point  for  the  year  because  most  producing  nations  have  just  completed  their  harvests  .  In  addition  ,  she  said  ,  many  of  those  nations  are  faced  with  serious  debt  and  need  to  sell  coffee  to  raise  capital  .  "  This  should  keep  substantial  pressure  on  exporters  to  undertake  sales  despite  the  drop  in  prices  ,"  she  said  .  Further  ,  U  .  S  .  demand  could  be  sluggish  because  winter  ,  the  period  of  greatest  consumption  ,  is  ending  .  Prices  could  fall  another  10  cents  to  15  cnts  a  pound  ,  analysts  said  .  Gold  futures  retreated  from  modest  early  gains  and  closed  steady  while  silver  prices  rallied  on  the  Commodity  Exchange  in  New  York  .  The  increase  in  U  .  S  .  banks  '  prime  rates  prompted  concern  about  renewed  inflation  ,  but  the  strength  of  the  U  .  S  .  dollar  discouraged  new  buying  .  "  The  market  is  getting  mixed  signals  and  it  doesn  '  t  know  which  way  to  go  ,"  one  analyst  said  .  Gold  futures  retreated  from  modest  early  gains  and  closed  steady  while  silver  prices  rallied  on  the  Commodity  Exchange  in  New  York  .  The  increase  in  U  .  S  .  banks  '  prime  rates  prompted  concern  about  renewed  inflation  ,  but  the  strength  of  the  U  .  S  .  dollar  discouraged  new  buying  .  "  The  market  is  getting  mixed  signals  and  it  doesn  '  t  know  which  way  to  go  ,"  one  analyst  said  .  COFFEE  FUTURES  UNDER  DLR  A  POUND  AT  SIX  -  YEAR  LOW  Coffee  futures  dipped  further  and  closed  below  one  dlr  a  pound  for  the  first  time  in  six  years  .  Coffee  for  delivery  in  May  ended  at  99  .  28  cents  a  pound  on  the  New  York  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  ,  down  0  .  76  cent  and  the  lowest  price  since  August  ,  1981  .  Prices  have  fallen  steadily  since  the  International  Coffee  Organization  failed  in  February  to  reach  an  agreement  controlling  exports  by  its  members  ,  and  pressure  was  renewed  this  week  as  the  executive  board  of  the  organization  met  in  London  without  reopening  debate  on  its  export  quotas  .  The  executive  board  has  limited  its  current  discussions  to  administrative  matters  and  is  set  to  adourn  Thursday  .  Burdensome  supplies  have  pressed  the  market  down  from  1  .  30  dlrs  a  pound  in  February  ,  when  the  organization  '  s  discussions  aimed  at  re  -  establishing  export  quotas  broke  down  .  Sandra  Kaul  ,  a  coffee  analyst  in  New  York  with  Shearson  Lehman  Brothers  ,  said  supplies  currently  are  at  their  high  point  for  the  year  because  most  producing  nations  have  just  completed  their  harvests  .  In  addition  ,  she  said  ,  many  of  those  nations  are  faced  with  serious  debt  and  need  to  sell  coffee  to  raise  capital  .  "  This  should  keep  substantial  pressure  on  exporters  to  undertake  sales  despite  the  drop  in  prices  ,"  she  said  .  Further  ,  U  .  S  .  demand  could  be  sluggish  because  winter  ,  the  period  of  greatest  consumption  ,  is  ending  .  Prices  could  fall  another  10  to  15  cents  a  pound  ,  analysts  said  .  Gold  futures  retreated  from  modest  early  gains  and  closed  steady  while  silver  prices  rallied  on  the  Commodity  Exchange  in  New  York  .  The  increase  in  U  .  S  .  banks  '  prime  rates  prompted  concern  about  renewed  inflation  but  the  strength  of  the  U  .  S  .  dollar  discouraged  new  buying  .  "  The  market  is  getting  mixed  signals  and  it  doesn  '  t  know  which  way  to  go  ,"  one  analyst  said  .  Cattle  futures  posted  new  highs  on  the  Chicago  Mercantile  Exchange  ,  while  live  hogs  rallied  from  early  losses  and  frozen  pork  bellies  finished  sharply  lower  .  Cattle  prices  continued  to  draw  support  from  the  winter  storm  that  swept  the  Plains  states  ,  leaving  animals  stranded  in  snowbound  fields  and  feed  lots  in  miserable  condition  .  Live  hogs  were  pressured  early  by  the  Agriculture  Department  '  s  report  Tuesday  that  producers  expanded  their  breeding  herds  more  than  the  market  expected  last  quarter  .  Prices  recovered  to  keep  pace  with  higher  cash  prices  .  Frozen  pork  bellies  fell  sharply  on  the  outlook  for  greater  production  and  closed  with  limit  losses  .  Soybean  futures  posted  sharp  gains  on  the  Chicago  Board  of  Trade  ,  while  corn  and  wheat  were  lower  .  Soybeans  rallied  in  response  to  Tuesday  '  s  USDA  report  that  farmers  intend  to  plant  56  .  9  mln  acres  this  year  ,  down  from  61  .  5  mln  planted  last  year  .  Corn  prices  were  pressured  by  the  outlook  for  67  .  6  mln  acres  of  corn  ,  which  is  down  from  last  year  '  s  76  .  7  mln  acres  ,  but  was  larger  than  analysts  expected  .  THAI  TRADERS  OPPOSE  REIMPOSITION  OF  COFFEE  QUOTAS  Thai  coffee  exporters  said  they  hoped  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  would  not  reimpose  export  quotas  even  though  this  may  lead  to  a  further  slump  in  world  prices  .  Susin  Suratanakaweekul  ,  president  of  the  Thai  Coffee  Exporters  Association  ,  told  Reuters  that  Thailand  obtained  little  benefit  from  previous  ICO  quotas  which  represented  only  about  30  pct  of  its  total  annual  exports  .  Thailand  expects  increased  overall  coffee  export  revenue  if  there  are  no  restrictions  on  sales  to  current  ICO  members  who  offer  higher  prices  than  non  -  members  ,  he  said  .  The  Customs  Department  said  Thailand  exported  21  ,  404  tonnes  of  coffee  last  year  ,  up  from  20  ,  602  in  1985  .  Thai  coffee  production  is  projected  to  fall  to  about  25  ,  000  tonnes  in  the  1986  /  87  (  Oct  /  Sept  )  season  from  28  ,  000  the  previous  year  .  However  ,  a  senior  Commerce  Ministry  official  said  the  Thai  government  supports  coffee  producers  '  lobbying  for  reimposed  ICO  quotas  which  ,  he  said  ,  would  help  lift  world  prices  .  Somphol  Kiatpaiboon  ,  director  general  of  the  Commercial  Economics  Department  ,  said  an  absence  of  ICO  quotas  would  encourage  producers  to  rapidly  release  coffee  on  to  the  market  ,  further  depressing  prices  .  He  said  Indonesia  is  expected  to  export  a  substantial  amount  of  coffee  this  month  without  such  restrictions  .  KENYAN  COFFEE  NEEDS  RAIN  ,  TRADERS  SAY  Kenya  '  s  late  coffee  crop  is  flowering  well  ,  but  the  main  coffee  areas  were  generally  dry  and  hot  in  the  week  ended  Wednesday  ,  trade  sources  said  .  "  Machakos  ,  Embu  ,  Meru  and  Kirinyaga  in  eastern  Kenya  ,  and  Nyeri  and  Thika  in  central  ,  have  been  dry  in  the  past  week  .  The  farmers  expect  rain  this  week  .  If  it  does  not  fall  output  of  the  late  (  October  -  November  -  December  )  crop  will  decline  sharply  ,"  one  source  said  .  He  said  that  since  most  growers  did  not  irrigate  their  crop  they  could  do  nothing  but  wait  for  rain  ,  the  main  factor  which  determines  Kenyan  coffee  production  .  Two  months  ago  the  International  Coffee  Organization  issued  a  forecast  of  Kenyan  exportable  coffee  production  in  the  1986  /  87  (  Oct  -  Sept  )  season  at  1  .  82  mln  bags  .  PRICES  RISE  AT  BANGALORE  COFFEE  AUCTION  Prices  rose  at  the  fortnightly  export  auction  here  on  March  25  for  sales  of  1  ,  907  .  1  tonnes  of  coffee  from  the  1986  /  87  and  1985  /  86  crops  out  of  a  total  offering  of  1  ,  940  .  7  tonnes  ,  the  Coffee  Board  said  .  Withdrawals  amounted  to  33  .  6  tonnes  .  The  type  and  grade  ,  quantity  sold  ,  average  prices  in  rupees  per  50  kilos  ,  exclusive  of  sales  tax  ,  with  previous  prices  at  the  March  11  auction  in  brackets  -  1986  /  87  crop  Plantation  "  A  "  592  .  2  1  ,  284  .  50  (  1  ,  223  .  50  )  Plantation  "  B  "  74  .  1  1  ,  095  .  50  (  1  ,  122  .  00  )  Plantation  "  C  "  208  .  2  1  ,  019  .  00  (  1  ,  017  .  50  )  Arabica  Cherry  "  AB  "  33  .  3  976  .  50  (  NA  )  Arabica  Cherry  "  PB  "  22  .  5  949  .  00  (  NA  )  Arabica  Cherry  "  C  "  58  .  2  889  .  50  (  NA  )  Robusta  Cherry  "  AB  "  90  .  9  1  ,  256  .  00  (  NA  )  Robusta  Cherry  "  PB  "  43  .  8  1  ,  039  .  50  (  NA  )  Robusta  "  PMT  AB  "  49  .  2  1  ,  255  .  50  (  NA  )  Robusta  "  PMT  PB  "  13  .  5  1  ,  200  .  00  (  NA  )  REP  Bulk  "  A  "  93  .  9  1  ,  057  .  50  (  908  .  50  )  REP  Bulk  "  B  "  256  .  5  1  ,  079  .  00  (  930  .  00  )  Robusta  Cherry  Bulk  40  .  2  1  ,  082  .  50  (  NA  )  Robusta  Cherry  "  C  "  9  .  0  997  .  00  (  NA  )  Robusta  Cherry  "  BBB  "  9  .  6  700  .  00  (  NA  )  1985  /  86  crop  Arabica  Cherry  "  AB  "  123  .  3  961  .  00  (  951  .  50  )  Arabica  Cherry  "  BBB  "  160  .  8  635  .  50  (  613  .  50  )  Robusta  Cherry  "  BBB  "  4  .  2  735  .  00  (  704  .  50  )  Monsooned  coffee  Monsooned  Robusta  "  AA  "  23  .  7  1  ,  265  .  50  (  NA  )  PERU  COFFEE  CROP  UNAFFECTED  BY  RAINS  Recent  heavy  rains  have  not  affected  the  Peru  coffee  crop  and  producers  are  looking  forward  to  a  record  harvest  ,  the  president  of  one  of  Peru  '  s  four  coffee  cooperative  groups  said  .  Justo  Marin  Ludena  ,  president  of  the  Cafe  Peru  group  of  cooperatives  which  accounts  for  about  20  pct  of  Peru  '  s  exports  ,  told  Reuters  a  harvest  of  up  to  1  ,  800  ,  000  quintales  (  46  kilos  )  was  expected  this  year  .  He  said  Peru  exported  1  ,  616  ,  101  quintales  in  the  year  to  September  1986  .  A  spokesman  for  the  Villa  Rica  cooperative  said  flood  waters  last  month  had  not  reached  coffee  plantations  ,  and  the  crop  was  unaffected  .  Floods  in  early  February  caused  extensive  damage  in  Villa  Rica  ,  whose  coffee  cooperative  exported  59  ,  960  quintales  last  year  ,  according  to  the  state  -  controlled  coffee  organisation  .  Marin  said  the  rains  would  only  affect  the  coffee  crop  if  they  continued  through  to  next  month  ,  when  harvesting  starts  .  He  said  Peruvian  producers  were  hoping  for  an  increase  this  year  in  the  1  .  3  pct  export  quota  ,  about  913  ,  000  quintales  ,  assigned  to  them  by  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  ,  ICO  .  He  said  Peru  exported  1  ,  381  ,  009  quintales  to  ICO  members  last  year  with  a  value  of  around  230  mln  dlrs  ,  and  another  235  ,  092  quintales  ,  valued  at  around  35  mln  dlrs  ,  to  non  -  ICO  members  .  SEASONAL  STABILISATION  SEEN  FOR  COFFEE  PRICES  The  onset  of  cooler  weather  in  Brazil  during  the  southern  hemisphere  winter  is  expected  to  have  a  stabilising  effect  on  a  weak  coffee  market  ,  West  German  trade  sources  said  .  "  The  annual  fear  of  frost  in  Brazil  will  probably  grip  the  market  sometime  this  month  until  June  or  early  July  ,"  one  trader  said  .  The  trade  believes  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  is  unlikely  to  tackle  the  re  -  introduction  of  quotas  before  its  September  meeting  and  until  then  the  market  will  not  see  any  unexpected  sharp  moves  in  either  direction  .  OTHER  MILDS  COFFEE  PRODUCERS  TO  MEET  MAY  4  Coffee  producers  belonging  to  the  "  Other  Milds  "  group  will  meet  May  4  in  Guatemala  to  discuss  the  possibility  of  restoring  export  quotas  ,  producer  delegates  told  reporters  after  the  closing  session  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  executive  board  meeting  .  The  "  Other  Milds  "  group  ,  comprising  Costa  Rica  ,  Dominican  Republic  ,  Ecuador  ,  El  Salvador  ,  Guatemala  ,  Honduras  ,  India  ,  Mexico  ,  Nicaragua  ,  Papua  New  Guinea  and  Peru  ,  might  consult  with  Brazil  and  Colombia  on  this  meeting  ,  but  it  was  not  certain  whether  these  two  countries  would  attend  ,  they  said  .  The  ICO  board  meeting  ended  without  moves  to  restart  negotiations  on  quotas  ,  which  broke  down  last  month  ,  producer  delegates  said  .  Producers  are  expected  to  hold  other  consultations  in  the  coming  months  on  how  to  proceed  with  quota  negotiations  ,  but  no  date  for  a  full  producer  meeting  has  been  mentioned  ,  they  said  .  The  board  completed  reports  on  stock  verification  and  the  next  regular  board  session  will  be  in  Indonesia  June  1  -  5  ,  delegates  said  .  DUTCH  GREEN  COFFEE  IMPORTS  FALL  IN  JANUARY  Dutch  green  coffee  imports  fell  to  10  ,  430  tonnes  in  January  from  13  ,  506  tonnes  in  January  1986  ,  and  exports  fell  to  366  tonnes  from  615  ,  the  Central  Bureau  of  Statistics  said  .  Imports  of  Colombian  coffee  were  2  ,  169  tonnes  (  3  ,  025  in  January  1986  ),  Brazilian  483  (  3  ,  715  ),  Indonesian  455  (  145  ),  Guatemalan  196  (  126  ),  Cameroun  464  (  560  )  and  Ivory  Coast  353  (  839  ).  BRAZILIAN  COFFEE  RAINFALL  THE  FOLLOWING  RAINFALL  WAS  RECORDDD  IN  THE  AREAS  OVER  THE  PAST  24  HOURS  PARANA  STATE  UMUARAMA  10  .  6  MILLIMETRES  ,  PARANAVAI  12  .  2  MM  ,  LONDRINA  6  .  0  MM  ,  MARINGA  8  .  0  MM  .  SAO  PAULO  STATE  :  PRESIDENZE  PRUDENTE  1  .  0  MM  ,  VOTUPORANGA  26  .  0  MM  ,  FRANCA  NIL  ,  CATANDUVA  0  .  1  MM  ,  SAO  CARLOS  NIL  ,  SAO  SIMAO  NIL  .  REUTER  COFFEE  MAY  FALL  MORE  BEFORE  NEW  QUOTA  TALKS  Coffee  prices  may  have  to  fall  even  lower  to  bring  exporting  and  importing  countries  once  more  round  the  negotiating  table  to  discuss  export  quotas  ,  ICO  delegates  and  traders  said  .  The  failure  last  night  of  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  producing  and  consuming  countries  to  agree  export  quotas  brought  a  sharp  fall  on  international  coffee  futures  markets  today  with  the  London  May  price  reaching  a  4  -  1  /  2  year  low  at  one  stage  of  1  ,  270  stg  per  tonne  before  ending  the  day  at  1  ,  314  stg  ,  down  184  stg  from  the  previous  close  .  The  New  York  May  price  was  down  15  .  59  at  108  .  00  cents  a  lb  .  Pressure  will  now  build  up  on  producers  returning  from  the  ICO  talks  to  sell  coffee  which  had  been  held  back  in  the  hope  the  negotiations  would  establish  quotas  which  would  put  a  floor  under  prices  ,  some  senior  traders  said  .  The  ICO  15  day  average  price  stood  at  114  .  66  cents  a  lb  for  March  2  .  This  compares  with  a  target  range  of  120  to  140  cents  a  lb  under  the  system  operating  before  quotas  were  suspended  in  February  last  year  following  a  sharp  rise  in  international  prices  caused  by  drought  damage  to  the  Brazilian  crop  .  In  a  Reuter  interview  ,  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  President  Jorio  Dauster  urged  producers  not  to  panic  and  said  they  need  to  make  hard  commercial  decisions  .  "  If  we  have  failed  at  the  ICO  ,  at  least  we  have  tried  ,"  Dauster  said  ,  adding  "  now  it  is  time  to  go  and  sell  coffee  ."  But  Brazil  is  keeping  its  marketing  options  open  .  It  plans  to  make  an  official  estimate  of  the  forthcoming  crop  next  month  ,  Dauster  said  .  It  is  too  difficult  to  forecast  now  .  Trade  sources  have  put  the  crop  at  over  26  mln  bags  compared  with  a  previous  crop  of  11  .  2  mln  .  Brazil  is  defining  details  of  public  selling  tenders  for  coffee  bought  on  London  '  s  futures  market  last  year  .  A  basic  condition  will  be  that  it  does  not  go  back  to  the  market  "  in  one  go  "  but  is  sold  over  a  minimum  of  six  months  .  The  breakdown  of  the  ICO  negotiations  reflected  a  split  between  producers  and  consumers  on  how  to  set  the  yardstick  for  future  quotas  .  Consumers  said  "  objective  criteria  "  like  average  exports  and  stocks  should  determine  producer  quota  shares  ,  Dauster  said  .  All  elements  of  this  proposal  were  open  to  negotiation  but  consumers  insisted  they  did  not  want  a  return  to  the  "  ad  hoc  "  way  of  settling  export  quotas  by  virtual  horse  trading  amongst  producers  whilst  consumers  waited  in  the  corridors  of  the  ICO  .  Dauster  said  stocks  and  exports  to  ICO  members  and  non  -  members  all  need  to  be  considered  when  setting  quotas  and  that  Brazil  would  like  to  apply  the  coffee  pact  with  a  set  ratio  of  overall  quota  reflecting  stock  holdings  .  It  is  a  "  simplistic  misconception  that  Brazil  can  dictate  "  policy  to  other  producers  .  While  consumer  countries  are  welcome  to  participate  they  cannot  dictate  quotas  which  are  very  difficult  to  allocate  as  different  "  objective  criteria  "  achieve  different  share  -  outs  of  quota  ,  Dauster  said  .  Other  delegates  said  there  was  more  open  talking  at  the  ICO  and  at  least  differences  were  not  hidden  by  a  bad  compromise  .  Consumer  delegates  said  they  had  not  been  prepared  to  accept  the  producers  '  offer  to  abandon  quotas  if  it  proves  impossible  to  find  an  acceptable  basis  for  them  .  "  We  want  the  basis  of  quotas  to  reflect  availability  and  to  encourage  stock  holding  as  an  alternative  to  a  buffer  stock  if  supplies  are  needed  at  a  later  stage  ,"  one  delegate  said  .  Some  consumers  claimed  producer  support  for  the  consumer  argument  was  gaining  momentum  towards  the  end  of  the  ICO  session  but  said  it  is  uncertain  whether  this  will  now  collapse  and  how  much  producers  will  sink  their  differences  should  prices  fall  further  and  remain  depressed  .  The  ICO  executive  board  meets  here  March  30  to  April  1  but  both  producer  and  consumer  delegates  said  they  doubt  if  real  negotiations  will  begin  then  .  The  board  is  due  to  meet  in  Indonesia  in  June  with  a  full  council  scheduled  for  September  .  More  cynical  traders  said  the  pressure  of  market  forces  and  politics  in  debt  heavy  Latin  American  producer  countries  could  bring  ICO  members  back  around  the  negotiating  table  sooner  than  many  imagine  .  In  that  case  quotas  could  come  into  force  during  the  summer  .  But  most  delegates  and  traders  said  quotas  before  October  are  unlikely  ,  while  Brazil  '  s  Dauster  noted  the  ICO  has  continued  although  there  were  no  quotas  from  1972  to  1980  .  A  clear  difference  between  the  pressures  already  being  felt  by  importers  and  exporters  was  that  consumers  would  have  been  happy  to  agree  on  a  formula  for  future  quotas  even  if  it  could  not  be  imposed  now  .  At  least  in  that  way  they  said  they  could  show  a  direct  relationship  between  quotas  and  availability  .  In  contrast  producers  wanted  stop  -  gap  quotas  to  plug  the  seemingly  bottomless  market  and  were  prepared  to  allow  these  to  lapse  should  lasting  agreement  not  be  found  .  "  Producers  were  offering  us  jam  tomorrow  but  after  their  failure  to  discuss  them  last  year  promises  were  insufficient  and  we  wanted  a  cast  iron  commitment  now  ,"  one  consumer  said  .  IBC  COULD  CLOSE  MAY  EXPORT  REGISTRATIONS  TONIGHT  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  could  close  May  export  registrations  tonight  following  extremely  heavy  sales  today  ,  exporters  said  .  They  estimated  registrations  today  at  between  1  .  0  mln  and  1  .  2  mln  60  kilo  bags  .  Yesterday  645  ,  000  bags  were  registered  .  The  exporters  said  over  1  .  0  mln  bags  of  total  registrations  could  have  been  the  declaration  of  sales  made  in  the  six  weeks  during  which  books  were  closed  .  The  rest  would  be  new  sales  .  When  the  IBC  opened  May  registrations  from  yesterday  it  did  not  set  any  volume  limit  .  April  registrations  opened  and  closed  on  February  16  when  a  daily  record  1  .  68  mln  bags  were  declared  .  IBC  REGISTERS  1  .  4  MLN  BAGS  OF  EXPORT  SALES  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  today  registered  1  .  4  mln  60  kilo  bags  of  green  coffee  for  May  shipment  ,  an  IBC  statement  said  .  This  brings  the  total  in  the  two  days  registrations  have  been  open  to  2  .  05  mln  ,  including  4  ,  868  bags  of  soluble  .  Today  '  s  registrations  comprised  1  ,  076  ,  226  bags  to  members  and  326  ,  259  to  non  -  members  of  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  .  No  soluble  sales  were  registered  today  .  IBC  CLOSES  EXPORT  REGISTRATIONS  -  EXPORTERS  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  tonight  closed  export  registrations  ,  exporters  said  .  They  said  they  heard  of  the  closure  from  IBC  officials  but  no  officials  could  be  reached  immediately  for  confirmation  .  Earlier  an  IBC  statement  said  registrations  for  May  ,  the  only  month  which  was  open  ,  today  totalled  1  .  4  mln  bags  of  60  kilos  to  bring  the  total  registered  for  the  month  to  2  .  05  mln  .  IBC  CLOSES  EXPORT  REGISTRATIONS  -  IBC  OFFICIAL  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  confirmed  having  closed  May  export  registrations  ,  effective  April  6  .  On  Friday  night  exporters  said  they  had  heard  of  the  closure  from  IBC  officials  ,  but  the  officials  could  not  at  the  time  be  reached  for  confirmation  .  PHILIPPINE  COFFEE  EXPORTS  SEEN  FALLING  SHARPLY  Philippine  coffee  exports  are  expected  to  fall  sharply  due  to  a  combination  of  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  '  s  (  ICO  )  decision  not  to  revive  export  quotas  and  higher  local  prices  ,  ICO  Certifying  Agency  official  Dante  de  Guzman  told  Reuters  .  He  said  exporter  registrations  dropped  from  an  average  weekly  500  tonnes  in  March  to  45  tonnes  last  week  ,  with  exports  in  coffee  year  1986  /  87  ,  ending  September  ,  forecast  to  total  about  8  ,  000  tonnes  against  48  ,  000  in  1985  /  86  .  "  Because  of  the  relatively  higher  level  of  domestic  prices  ,  it  has  become  difficult  to  service  exports  ,"  de  Guzman  said  ,  adding  that  most  exporters  are  taking  a  wait  and  see  attitude  .  Coffee  production  was  expected  to  drop  slightly  to  about  one  mln  bags  of  60  kg  each  in  the  1986  /  87  crop  year  ending  June  from  1  .  1  mln  bags  last  year  ,  he  said  .  BRAZILIAN  COFFEE  RAINFALL  THE  FOLLOWING  RAINFALL  WAS  RECORDED  IN  THE  AREAS  OVER  THE  PAST  24  HOURS  PARANA  STATE  :  UMUARAMA  NIL  ,  PARANAVAI  NIL  ,  LONDRINA  NIL  ,  MARINGA  NIL  .  SAO  PAULO  STATE  PRESIDENTE  PRUDENTE  NIL  ,  VOTUPORANGA  NIL  ,  FRANCA  NIL  ,  CATANDUVA  NIL  ,  SAO  CARLOS  NIL  ,  SAO  SIMAO  NIL  .  MINAS  GERAIS  STATE  :  GUAXUPE  33  .  0  MILLIMETRES  ,  TRES  PONTAS  5  .  0  MM  .  REUTER  U  .  S  .  CERTIFIED  COFFEE  STOCKS  DOWN  IN  LATEST  WEEK  The  amount  of  coffee  stored  in  New  York  and  New  Orleans  warehouses  and  certified  for  delivery  against  the  New  York  Coffee  "  C  "  futures  totalled  585  ,  555  bags  as  of  April  3  ,  compared  with  585  ,  794  bags  the  previous  week  ,  a  net  decrease  of  239  bags  ,  the  New  York  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  said  .  The  total  comprised  392  ,  845  bags  in  New  York  ,  an  increase  of  261  bags  ,  and  192  ,  710  bags  in  New  Orleans  ,  a  drop  of  500  bags  .  The  exchange  said  there  were  nil  bags  pending  classification  .  There  were  56  ,  578  bags  pending  certification  ,  including  32  ,  553  in  New  York  and  24  ,  025  in  New  Orleans  ,  the  exchange  said  .  COFFEE  TALKS  FAILURE  SEEN  PRESSURING  U  .  S  .  Failure  of  talks  on  re  -  establishing  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  coffee  quotas  last  week  may  put  political  pressure  on  the  United  States  ,  particularly  the  State  Department  ,  to  reassess  its  position  ,  but  the  U  .  S  .  is  unlikely  to  back  away  from  its  basic  demand  quotas  be  set  by  "  objective  criteria  ",  U  .  S  .  officials  said  .  Jon  Rosenbaum  ,  assistant  U  .  S  .  trade  representative  and  head  of  Washington  '  s  delegation  to  the  talks  ,  told  Reuters  on  his  return  from  London  that  the  United  States  is  willing  to  resume  the  coffee  negotiations  as  early  as  April  if  necessary  .  Rosenbaum  said  the  United  States  will  be  "  flexible  "  in  discussing  the  method  of  establishing  objective  criteria  and  any  transition  to  new  quotas  ,  but  not  on  the  basic  aim  of  establishing  an  objective  method  of  setting  quotas  .  At  the  ICO  talks  major  consuming  nations  ,  led  by  the  U  .  S  .,  proposed  that  future  coffee  export  quota  shares  be  calculated  by  a  formula  incorporating  a  producer  '  s  recent  exportable  production  and  verified  stocks  ,  while  large  producers  led  by  Brazil  proposed  maintaining  the  traditional  ad  hoc  division  of  shares  .  The  consumer  position  would  have  in  effect  reduced  the  market  share  of  Brazil  ,  by  far  the  world  '  s  largest  producer  .  Rosenbaum  said  the  administration  would  continue  to  support  legislation  now  before  Congress  which  would  allow  the  U  .  S  .  customs  service  to  monitor  coffee  imports  ,  as  a  way  to  comply  with  any  future  coffee  quotas  .  He  said  the  Reagan  administration  would  be  reviewing  the  coffee  policy  situation  following  the  collapse  of  the  London  talks  ,  but  "  nobody  is  proposing  we  change  our  position  ."  However  ,  other  U  .  S  .  government  officials  involved  in  coffee  policy  said  they  are  bracing  for  a  diplomatic  and  coffee  market  offensive  from  producer  countries  ,  led  by  Brazil  and  Colombia  ,  to  soften  the  consumer  position  .  "  Knowing  that  its  next  crop  is  fairly  large  ,  Brazil  will  kind  of  want  to  test  the  resolve  of  other  producers  and  consumers  ,"  said  one  U  .  S  .  official  .  The  U  .  S  .  official  ,  who  asked  not  to  be  identified  ,  said  Brazil  and  Colombia  may  flood  the  coffee  market  in  the  next  few  months  in  an  effort  to  drive  down  prices  and  pressure  other  countries  ,  particularly  the  splinter  group  of  small  producers  who  differed  with  the  major  producers  in  London  .  This  in  turn  could  lead  to  urgent  appeals  from  Latin  American  countries  ,  faced  with  mounting  debt  problems  ,  to  the  U  .  S  .  State  department  ,  and  to  the  National  Security  Council  in  the  White  House  ,  for  an  easing  of  the  U  .  S  .  position  ,  U  .  S  .  officials  said  .  The  State  department  ,  a  major  player  in  setting  U  .  S  .  coffee  policy  ,  may  then  face  conflicting  pressures  ,  particularly  from  politically  -  sensitive  U  .  S  .  allies  in  Central  America  ,  U  .  S  .  officials  said  .  El  Salvador  and  Guatemala  both  backed  Brazil  and  Colombia  at  the  London  talks  in  resisting  pressures  for  quotas  based  on  objective  criteria  .  But  the  Dominican  Republic  and  Costa  Rica  joined  the  splinter  group  ,  which  said  it  would  agree  to  objective  criteria  .  There  is  a  strong  feeling  among  some  in  the  State  Department  that  the  United  States  should  continue  to  support  the  splinter  group  of  producers  who  have  taken  the  politically  -  risky  step  of  opposing  Brazil  on  the  objective  criteria  question  ,  U  .  S  .  officials  said  .  Within  the  consuming  countries  there  also  is  expected  to  be  some  pressure  to  reassess  positions  .  In  London  ,  the  U  .  S  .  was  supported  by  the  U  .  K  .,  the  Netherlands  ,  West  Germany  ,  Japan  ,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  on  the  issue  of  objective  criteria  ,  U  .  S  .  officials  said  .  This  bloc  represented  enough  votes  among  consuming  nations  to  successfully  prevent  adoption  of  the  producer  proposals  .  However  ,  U  .  S  .  sources  said  West  Germany  '  s  support  was  at  times  qualified  and  there  is  some  concern  that  the  European  Community  could  come  under  pressure  to  be  more  accommodative  to  producers  in  future  talks  .  France  backed  the  Ivory  Coast  and  other  African  producers  during  the  talks  .  A  softening  of  the  EC  stance  would  make  it  more  difficult  ,  although  not  impossible  ,  for  the  U  .  S  .  to  block  producer  plans  .  While  political  manuevering  by  small  producers  and  consuming  countries  will  be  important  ,  U  .  S  .  officials  said  the  key  to  any  future  outcome  will  be  Brazil  '  s  position  .  U  .  S  .  officials  blamed  Brazil  '  s  intransigence  for  the  failure  of  the  talks  and  said  a  more  flexible  position  from  Brasilia  would  be  the  most  important  step  toward  agreement  .  COLOMBIA  BLASTS  U  .  S  .  FOR  COFFEE  TALKS  FAILURE  Colombian  finance  minister  Cesar  Gaviria  blamed  an  inflexible  U  .  S  .  position  for  the  failure  of  last  week  '  s  International  Coffee  Organisation  ,  ICO  ,  talks  on  export  quotas  .  "  We  understand  that  the  U  .  S  .  Position  was  more  inflexible  than  the  one  of  Brazil  ,  where  current  economic  and  political  factors  make  it  difficult  to  adopt  certain  positions  ,"  Gaviria  told  Reuters  in  an  interview  .  The  U  .  S  .  and  Brazil  have  each  laid  the  blame  on  the  other  for  the  breakdown  in  the  negotiations  to  re  -  introduce  export  quotas  after  being  extended  through  the  weekend  in  London  .  Gaviria  stressed  that  Colombia  tried  to  ensure  a  successful  outcome  of  the  London  talks  but  he  deplored  that  intransigent  attitudes  ,  both  from  producing  and  consuming  nations  ,  made  it  impossible  .  In  a  conversation  later  with  local  journalists  ,  Gaviria  said  the  U  .  S  .  attitude  would  have  serious  economic  and  political  consequences  ,  not  necessarily  for  a  country  like  Colombia  but  certainly  for  other  Latin  American  nations  and  for  some  African  countries  .  He  told  Reuters  that  Colombia  ,  because  of  the  relatively  high  level  of  its  coffee  stocks  ,  would  probably  suffer  less  .  According  to  Gaviria  ,  Colombia  can  hope  to  earn  about  1  ,  500  mln  dlrs  this  calendar  year  from  coffee  exports  ,  which  traditionally  account  for  55  pct  of  the  country  '  s  total  export  revenue  .  That  estimate  would  represent  a  drop  in  revenues  of  1  ,  400  mln  dlrs  from  1986  .  Colombia  ,  which  held  stockpiles  of  10  .  5  mln  bags  at  the  start  of  the  current  coffee  year  ,  exported  a  record  11  .  5  mln  bags  in  the  1985  /  86  coffee  year  ending  last  September  30  .  RIO  COFFEE  TRADE  PREFERS  NO  PACT  TO  QUOTA  CUT  The  failure  of  talks  to  introduce  new  coffee  export  quotas  within  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  ,  ICA  ,  was  preferable  to  the  alternative  of  Brazil  having  a  sharply  reduced  quota  ,  as  had  been  proposed  ,  President  of  the  Rio  de  Janeiro  Coffee  Trade  Association  Carlos  Calmon  said  .  He  told  Reuters  proposals  to  reduce  Brazil  '  s  quota  to  25  pct  of  the  world  share  from  30  pct  at  present  were  unacceptable  as  the  country  has  large  stocks  and  a  good  harvest  is  expected  .  "  Brazil  has  the  capacity  to  export  20  mln  bags  this  year  ,"  Calmon  added  .  Calmon  said  ,  assuming  a  58  mln  bag  global  ICA  quota  ,  Brazil  '  s  share  under  the  proposals  would  have  been  14  .  5  mln  bags  ,  of  which  soluble  would  have  accounted  for  2  .  0  mln  ,  leaving  just  12  .  5  mln  bags  of  green  coffee  for  export  .  "  It  '  s  a  pity  the  talks  broke  down  ,  but  for  Brazil  this  was  better  than  such  a  quota  reduction  ,"  he  added  .  In  1985  Brazil  exported  19  .  6  mln  bags  of  soluble  and  green  coffee  ,  including  about  two  mln  bags  to  non  -  members  .  A  severe  drought  and  marketing  problems  cut  exports  last  year  to  under  10  mln  bags  .  Calmon  estimated  stocks  as  of  January  1  at  18  mln  bags  ,  of  which  5  .  0  mln  have  already  been  sold  for  export  .  The  harvest  this  year  should  be  around  30  mln  bags  ,  he  added  .  The  latest  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  estimate  for  last  year  '  s  harvest  is  11  .  2  mln  bags  ,  although  many  traders  believe  it  was  higher  than  this  .  COFFEE  PRICE  DROP  NOT  AFFECTING  COLOMBIA  '  S  DEBT  the  sharp  fall  in  international  coffee  prices  will  not  affect  colombia  '  s  external  credit  situation  ,  finance  minister  cesar  gaviria  told  reuters  .  "  our  foreign  debt  is  high  ,  but  we  can  pay  ,  and  I  hope  the  foreign  banking  community  will  maintain  its  position  toward  us  ,"  he  said  .  He  said  the  current  decline  on  world  coffee  markets  was  not  totally  unexpected  and  would  have  no  immediate  bearing  on  colombia  '  s  financial  state  ,  which  he  described  as  sound  .  Gaviria  said  the  decline  in  coffee  prices  could  mean  a  loss  of  1  .  5  billion  dlrs  in  revenues  for  1987  .  The  conservative  party  and  the  country  '  s  largest  trade  union  called  this  week  for  the  debt  to  be  rescheduled  following  the  price  drop  .  Colombia  ,  the  only  major  latin  american  country  not  to  have  rescheduled  its  external  public  debt  ,  has  a  total  foreign  debt  of  13  .  6  billion  dlrs  .  IVORY  COAST  SAYS  COFFEE  PRICE  FALL  SHORT  -  LIVED  Ivory  Coast  today  predicted  that  the  present  coffee  price  crash  recorded  after  the  collapse  of  the  recent  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  meeting  in  London  would  not  last  long  .  Commenting  on  Monday  '  s  failure  by  producer  and  consumer  nations  to  agree  on  new  export  quotas  needed  to  tighten  an  oversupplied  coffee  market  ,  Ivorian  Agriculture  Minister  Denis  Bra  Kanon  told  reporters  that  traders  would  eventually  be  obliged  to  restore  their  positions  .  "  I  am  convinced  the  market  is  going  to  reverse  by  April  ,"  he  told  a  news  conference  here  at  his  return  from  the  failed  London  talks  .  Robusta  coffee  beans  for  May  delivery  ended  the  day  in  London  down  about  50  sterling  at  1  ,  265  sterling  a  tonne  ,  the  lowest  since  1982  .  Bra  Kanon  estimated  at  at  least  535  billion  CFA  francs  (  1  .  76  billion  dlrs  )  the  overall  loss  in  revenues  earned  by  Ivory  Coast  from  all  its  commodities  exports  this  year  if  the  slide  on  the  world  markets  continues  .  He  disclosed  that  his  country  -  the  world  '  s  biggest  cocoa  producer  and  the  third  largest  for  coffee  --  would  spearhead  an  African  initiative  to  reach  a  compromise  formula  by  the  end  of  next  month  .  Ivory  Coast  has  been  chosen  by  the  Abidjan  -  based  Inter  -  African  Coffee  Organisation  (  IACO  )  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  continent  '  s  25  producer  nations  at  the  London  talks  .  "  An  initiative  from  IACO  is  likely  very  soon  ,"  he  said  without  elaborating  .  "  Following  the  London  collapse  ,  we  have  immediately  embarked  on  a  concertation  course  to  avoid  breaking  an  already  fragile  market  ,"  he  said  .  Questioned  by  journalists  ,  the  minister  said  President  Felix  Houphouet  -  Boigny  estimated  for  the  moment  that  his  government  would  not  be  forced  to  reduce  the  price  guaranteed  by  the  state  to  Ivorian  coffee  -  growers  for  the  current  season  .  Last  year  ,  the  West  African  nation  announced  that  the  coffee  producer  price  would  stay  at  200  CFA  francs  (  65  cents  )  per  kilo  .  Bra  Kanon  said  that  his  country  would  strive  to  diversify  its  agricultural  production  to  avoid  beeing  too  dependent  from  world  market  fluctuation  .  A  communique  read  over  the  state  -  run  television  tonight  said  that  during  today  '  s  weekly  cabinet  meeting  ,  the  veteran  Ivorian  leader  reaffirmed  "  his  faith  in  Ivory  Coast  '  s  bright  (  economic  )  future  "  despite  the  commodities  price  slide  .  The  Agriculture  Minister  also  announced  the  government  decided  to  earmark  a  sum  of  7  .  5  billion  CFA  francs  (  24  .  71  mln  dlrs  )  to  support  the  country  '  s  small  farmers  .  Financially  -  strapped  Ivory  Coast  ,  long  regarded  as  one  of  Africa  '  s  showpiece  economies  ,  is  going  through  difficult  times  following  the  sharp  slump  in  the  world  price  of  cocoa  and  coffee  .  Ivory  Coast  '  s  real  gross  domestic  product  is  expected  to  grow  only  one  pct  this  year  compared  to  five  pct  in  1986  ,  according  to  a  recent  Finance  Ministry  estimate  .  THAI  COFFEE  EXPORTS  RISE  IN  1986  Thai  coffee  exports  rose  to  22  ,  068  tonnes  in  1986  from  20  ,  430  a  year  earlier  ,  the  Customs  Department  said  .  CREDITOR  BANKS  MAY  BUY  INTO  SINGAPORE  COFFEE  FIRM  The  nine  creditor  banks  of  the  Singapore  coffee  trader  &  lt  ;  Teck  Hock  and  Co  (  Pte  )  Ltd  >  are  thinking  of  buying  a  controlling  stake  in  the  company  themselves  ,  a  creditor  bank  official  said  .  Since  last  December  the  banks  have  been  allowing  the  company  to  postpone  loan  repayments  while  they  try  to  find  an  overseas  commodity  company  to  make  an  offer  for  the  firm  .  At  least  one  company  has  expressed  interest  and  negotiations  are  not  yet  over  ,  banking  sources  said  .  However  ,  the  banks  are  now  prepared  to  consider  taking  the  stake  if  they  find  an  investor  willing  to  inject  six  to  seven  mln  dlrs  in  the  company  but  not  take  control  ,  the  banking  sources  said  .  Teck  Hock  '  s  financial  adviser  ,  Singapore  International  Merchant  Bankers  Ltd  (  SIMBL  ),  will  work  on  the  new  proposal  with  the  creditor  banks  ,  they  said  .  Major  holdings  are  likely  to  be  held  by  the  two  largest  creditor  banks  ,  Standard  Chartered  Bank  &  lt  ;  STCH  .  L  >  and  Oversea  -  Chinese  Banking  Corp  Ltd  &  lt  ;  OCBM  .  SI  >,  they  added  .  Teck  Hock  owes  over  100  mln  Singapore  dlrs  and  the  creditor  banks  earlier  this  week  agreed  to  let  Teck  Hock  fufill  profitable  contracts  to  help  balance  earlier  losses  .  The  nine  banks  are  Oversea  -  Chinese  Banking  Corp  Ltd  ,  United  Overseas  Bank  Ltd  &  lt  ;  UOBM  .  SI  >,  &  lt  ;  Banque  Paribas  >,  &  lt  ;  Bangkok  Bank  Ltd  ,>  &  lt  ;  Citibank  NA  >,  Standard  Chartered  Bank  Ltd  ,  Algemene  Bank  Nederland  NV  &  lt  ;  ABNN  .  AS  >,  Banque  Nationale  De  Paris  &  lt  ;  BNPP  .  PA  >  and  &  lt  ;  Chase  Manhattan  Bank  NA  .>  BRAZIL  HAS  NO  SET  COFFEE  EXPORT  TARGETS  -  IBC  Brazil  has  no  set  target  for  its  coffee  exports  following  this  week  '  s  breakdown  of  International  Coffee  Organization  talks  on  export  quotas  ,  President  of  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  Jorio  Dauster  said  .  He  told  a  press  conference  Brazil  now  had  to  reconsider  its  export  plans  and  that  the  15  .  5  mln  bag  export  figure  which  it  had  proposed  for  itself  earlier  should  no  longer  be  taken  as  the  country  '  s  export  target  to  ICO  -  member  countries  .  The  15  .  5  mln  bag  offer  had  been  made  on  the  assumption  an  agreement  would  bring  stability  to  world  markets  ,  he  added  .  It  had  been  a  gesture  to  ease  negotiations  ,  but  the  lack  of  an  agreement  leaves  it  no  longer  valid  and  exports  could  be  above  or  below  15  .  5  mln  bags  ,  he  said  .  Dauster  said  he  would  talk  to  producers  ,  exporters  and  market  analysts  before  taking  any  decision  on  export  policy  ,  but  any  future  policy  would  be  flexible  and  adjusted  to  market  conditions  .  "  We  will  not  take  any  short  -  term  decisions  which  might  cause  markets  to  panic  ,"  Dauster  added  .  He  said  it  would  be  a  policy  which  shows  Brazil  has  coffee  to  sell  and  that  it  could  do  so  without  an  ICO  agreement  .  "  Brazil  has  coffee  (  to  sell  )  and  wants  to  show  that  it  does  not  need  an  ICO  agreement  as  a  crutch  ,"  Dauster  said  .  Commenting  on  the  breakdown  of  the  talks  ,  Dauster  said  consumer  proposals  would  have  implied  a  reduction  of  one  to  two  mln  bags  in  Brazil  '  s  export  quotas  .  "  It  was  a  proposal  which  would  lead  to  a  substantial  loss  for  Brazil  and  which  would  be  difficult  for  the  country  to  recover  ,"  he  said  .  The  consumer  proposal  to  base  quotas  on  a  six  -  year  moving  average  of  exportable  production  surpluses  would  lead  to  overproduction  as  countries  boosted  output  to  win  higher  quotas  ,  he  said  .  Dauster  rejected  reports  which  said  Brazil  '  s  inflexibility  had  been  the  cause  for  the  breakdown  of  talks  ,  noting  that  its  stance  had  the  backing  of  85  pct  of  producing  countries  .  Close  links  would  continue  with  these  producers  ,  particularly  Colombia  ,  Mexico  and  Francophone  African  countries  ,  but  Dauster  said  no  joint  marketing  action  was  envisaged  at  present  .  He  also  said  Brazil  currently  had  no  plans  to  return  to  a  system  of  roaster  buying  contracts  ,  although  "  no  hypothesis  has  been  abandoned  ."  Dauster  said  he  had  not  yet  decided  when  registrations  for  May  shipment  coffee  will  be  opened  .  He  declined  comment  on  whether  the  IBC  will  adopt  a  policy  of  opening  registrations  for  up  to  six  months  in  advance  ,  as  some  exporters  had  suggested  .  He  noted  export  registrations  for  the  first  four  months  of  the  year  totalled  around  5  .  5  mln  bags  ,  more  than  half  the  9  .  9  mln  exported  in  1986  when  drought  reduced  the  crop  to  between  11  .  2  mln  and  12  mln  bags  .  He  said  that  ,  although  he  had  heard  forecasts  of  30  mln  bags  for  the  coming  crop  ,  the  IBC  would  not  make  any  estimate  until  late  April  .  PRODUCER  SPLIT  HEATS  UP  COFFEE  QUOTA  TALKS  Talks  on  the  possibility  of  reintroducing  global  coffee  export  quotas  have  been  extended  into  today  ,  with  sparks  flying  yesterday  when  a  dissident  group  of  exporters  was  not  included  in  a  key  negotiating  forum  .  The  special  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  council  was  called  to  find  a  way  to  stop  a  prolonged  slide  in  coffee  prices  .  However  ,  delegates  said  no  solution  to  the  question  of  how  to  implement  quotas  was  yet  in  sight  .  World  coffee  export  quotas  --  the  major  device  used  to  regulate  coffee  prices  under  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  --  were  suspended  a  year  ago  when  prices  soared  in  reaction  to  a  drought  which  cut  Brazil  "  s  output  by  nearly  two  thirds  .  Brazil  is  the  world  "  s  largest  coffee  producer  and  exporter  .  Producers  and  consumers  now  are  facing  off  over  the  question  of  how  quotas  should  be  calculated  under  any  future  quota  distribution  scheme  ,  delegates  said  .  Tempers  flared  late  Saturday  when  a  minority  group  of  eight  producing  countries  was  not  represented  in  a  contact  group  of  five  producer  and  five  consumer  delegates  plus  alternates  which  was  set  up  to  facilitate  debate  .  The  big  producers  "  want  to  have  the  ball  only  in  their  court  and  it  isn  "  t  fair  ,"  minority  producer  spokesman  Luis  Escalante  of  Costa  Rica  said  .  The  majority  producer  group  has  proposed  resuming  quotas  April  1  ,  using  the  previous  ad  hoc  method  of  carving  up  quota  shares  ,  with  a  promise  to  try  to  negotiate  basic  quotas  before  September  30  ,  delegates  said  .  Their  plan  would  perpetuate  the  status  quo  ,  allowing  Brazil  to  retain  almost  all  of  its  current  30  pct  share  of  the  export  market  ,  Colombia  17  pct  ,  Ivory  Coast  seven  pct  and  Indonesia  six  pct  ,  with  the  rest  divided  among  smaller  exporters  .  But  consuming  countries  and  the  dissident  producer  group  have  tabled  separate  proposals  requiring  quotas  be  determined  by  availability  ,  using  a  formula  incorporating  exportable  production  and  stocks  statistics  .  Their  proposals  would  give  Brazil  a  smaller  quota  share  and  Colombia  and  Indonesia  a  larger  share  ,  and  bring  a  new  quota  distribution  scheme  into  effect  now  rather  than  later  .  Brazil  has  so  far  been  unwilling  to  accept  any  proposal  that  would  reduce  its  quota  share  ,  delegates  said  .  Delegates  would  not  speculate  on  prospects  for  agreement  on  a  quota  package  .  "  Anything  is  possible  at  this  phase  ,"  even  adjournment  of  the  meeting  until  March  or  April  ,  one  said  .  If  the  ICO  does  agree  on  quotas  ,  the  price  of  coffee  on  the  supermarket  shelf  is  not  likely  to  change  sinnificantly  as  a  result  ,  industry  sources  said  .  Retail  coffee  prices  over  the  past  year  have  remained  about  steady  even  though  coffee  market  prices  have  tumbled  ,  so  an  upswing  probably  will  not  be  passed  onto  the  consumer  either  ,  they  said  .  INDONESIAN  AGRICULTURE  GROWTH  EXPECTED  TO  SLOW  Indonesia  "  s  agriculture  sector  will  grow  by  just  1  .  0  pct  in  calendar  1987  ,  against  an  estimated  2  .  4  pct  in  1986  as  the  production  of  some  commodities  stagnates  or  declines  ,  the  U  .  S  .  Embassy  said  in  a  report  .  Production  of  Indonesia  "  s  staple  food  ,  rice  ,  is  forecast  to  fall  to  around  26  .  3  mln  tonnes  from  an  embassy  estimate  of  26  .  58  mln  tonnes  in  1986  ,  according  to  the  annual  report  on  Indonesia  "  s  agricultural  performance  .  The  government  officially  estimates  1986  rice  production  at  26  .  7  mln  tonnes  ,  with  a  forecast  27  .  3  mln  tonnes  output  in  1987  .  The  report  says  wheat  imports  are  likely  to  fall  to  1  .  5  mln  tonnes  in  calendar  1987  from  1  .  69  mln  tonnes  in  1986  because  of  a  drawdown  on  stocks  .  "  Growth  prospects  for  agriculture  in  1987  do  not  look  promising  as  rice  production  is  forecast  to  decline  and  the  production  of  sugarcane  ,  rubber  and  copra  show  little  or  no  gain  ,"  the  report  says  .  "  The  modest  overall  increase  which  is  expected  will  be  due  to  significant  gains  in  production  of  corn  soybeans  ,  palm  oil  and  palm  kernels  ."  Constraints  to  significant  overall  increases  in  agricultural  output  include  a  shortage  of  disease  resistant  seeds  ,  limited  fertile  land  ,  insect  pests  and  a  reluctance  by  farmers  to  shift  from  rice  production  to  other  crops  ,  the  report  underlines  .  The  fall  in  rice  production  is  caused  by  an  outbreak  of  pests  known  as  "  wereng  "  or  brown  plant  hoppers  in  1986  which  largely  offset  gains  in  yields  .  The  outbreak  has  forced  the  government  to  ban  the  use  of  57  insecticides  on  rice  because  it  was  believed  the  wereng  are  now  resistant  to  these  varieties  ,  and  to  use  lower  -  yielding  ,  more  resistant  rice  types  .  The  government  is  depending  on  increased  production  of  export  commodities  such  as  coffee  ,  tea  ,  rubber  ,  plywood  and  palm  oil  to  offset  revenue  losses  brought  on  by  falling  crude  oil  prices  .  Palm  oil  production  is  expected  to  increase  by  over  7  .  0  pct  in  1987  to  1  .  45  mln  tonnes  from  1  .  35  mln  ,  with  exports  rising  to  an  estimated  720  ,  000  tonnes  from  695  ,  000  tonnes  in  1986  ,  the  report  says  .  But  while  production  of  soybeans  in  1987  /  88  (  Oct  -  Sept  )  will  rise  to  1  .  075  mln  tonnes  from  980  ,  000  in  1986  /  87  ,  imports  will  also  rise  to  supply  a  new  soybean  crushing  plant  .  The  report  says  that  imports  of  wheat  ,  soybeans  ,  soybean  meal  and  cotton  are  not  likely  to  decline  as  a  result  of  last  September  "  s  31  pct  devaluation  of  the  rupiah  because  of  a  rise  in  domestic  demand  .  The  report  said  that  Indonesia  "  s  overall  economic  performance  in  calendar  1986  was  about  zero  or  even  a  slight  negative  growth  rate  ,  the  lowest  rate  of  growth  since  the  mid  -  1960s  .  It  compares  with  1  .  9  pct  growth  in  1985  and  6  .  7  pct  in  1984  .  The  dramatic  fall  in  oil  prices  last  year  was  responsible  for  the  slump  .  COFFEE  FALL  NOT  SEEN  AFFECTING  COLOMBIA  '  S  DEBT  The  sharp  fall  in  international  coffee  prices  will  not  affect  Colombia  '  s  external  credit  situation  ,  finance  minister  Cesar  Gaviria  told  reuters  .  He  said  the  current  depression  on  world  coffee  markets  was  not  totally  unexpected  and  would  have  no  immediate  bearing  on  Colombia  '  s  financial  state  which  he  described  as  sound  .  "  Our  foreign  debt  is  high  ,  but  we  can  pay  and  I  hope  the  foreign  banking  community  will  maintain  its  position  toward  us  ,"  he  said  .  Colombia  ,  the  only  major  latin  american  country  not  to  have  rescheduled  its  external  public  debt  ,  has  a  total  foreign  debt  of  13  .  6  billion  dlrs  .  Calls  for  a  rescheduling  of  the  debt  have  come  this  week  from  the  opposition  conservative  party  and  the  biggest  trade  union  following  the  coffee  price  drop  .  Gaviria  said  lower  coffee  prices  this  year  could  mean  a  loss  of  1  .  5  billion  dlrs  in  revenues  for  1987  .  Gaviria  submitted  to  the  world  bank  and  the  inter  -  american  bank  last  week  in  new  york  a  borrowing  plan  ,  for  a  total  of  3  .  054  billion  dlrs  to  be  disbursed  over  the  next  four  years  ,  which  he  said  was  approved  .  COFFEE  QUOTA  TALKS  CONTINUE  ,  NO  ACCORD  SEEN  LIKELY  The  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  council  talks  on  reintroducing  export  quotas  continued  with  an  extended  session  lasting  late  into  Sunday  night  ,  but  delegates  said  prospects  for  an  accord  between  producers  and  consumers  were  diminishing  by  the  minute  .  The  special  meeting  ,  called  to  stop  the  prolonged  slide  in  coffee  prices  ,  was  likely  to  adjourn  sometime  tonight  without  agreement  ,  delegates  said  .  The  council  is  expected  to  agree  to  reconvene  either  within  the  next  six  weeks  or  in  September  ,  they  said  .  The  talks  foundered  on  Sunday  afternoon  when  it  became  apparent  consumers  and  producers  could  not  compromise  on  the  formula  for  calculating  any  future  quota  system  ,  delegates  said  .  Coffee  export  quotas  were  suspended  a  year  ago  when  prices  soared  in  response  to  a  drought  which  cut  Brazil  '  s  crop  by  nearly  two  -  thirds  .  Brazil  is  the  world  '  s  largest  coffee  producer  and  exporter  .  BRAZIL  DEBT  SEEN  PARTNER  TO  HARD  SELL  TACTICS  Brazil  '  s  recent  announcement  of  a  suspension  in  interest  payments  on  68  billion  dlrs  of  foreign  debt  gave  the  banking  system  the  jitters  and  confirmed  views  among  many  international  economists  and  commodities  analysts  that  Brazil  will  continue  to  flex  its  trading  muscles  in  1987  .  The  developing  world  '  s  most  indebted  nation  is  also  its  most  prolific  exporter  of  agricultural  commodities  such  as  coffee  and  soybeans  ,  and  might  maximize  foreign  exchange  revenue  by  selling  hard  on  world  markets  ,  economists  said  .  "  That  sounds  like  a  reasonable  strategy  .  But  there  is  no  way  they  can  trade  their  way  out  of  this  situation  ,"  Aldo  Roldan  ,  Vice  President  for  International  Services  at  Chase  Econometrics  ,  said  .  Roldan  told  Reuters  that  Brazil  not  only  had  to  tackle  the  problems  of  satisfying  domestic  demand  and  competing  on  glutted  world  markets  ,  but  also  had  to  work  to  make  its  position  on  foreign  exchange  markets  more  profitable  .  "  Domestic  costs  have  increased  (  due  to  inflation  )  and  exporters  have  not  had  the  same  offsetting  movement  in  exchange  rates  ,"  Roldan  said  .  The  Chase  economist  also  said  commodities  markets  were  depressed  and  generally  did  not  appear  very  promising  for  a  country  like  Brazil  ,  where  pure  commodities  account  for  some  50  pct  of  exports  and  in  1986  had  a  total  value  of  around  23  billion  dlrs  .  But  he  added  :  "  They  are  always  pretty  aggressive  and  they  have  good  foreign  marketing  channels  ."  Analysts  said  a  key  factor  in  Brazilian  trade  will  be  coffee  ,  and  even  without  background  pressure  from  foreign  creditors  the  world  '  s  largest  producer  was  expected  to  hit  the  market  this  year  with  a  vengeance  .  Negotiations  between  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  members  to  re  -  establish  producer  export  quotas  broke  up  earlier  this  week  with  major  producers  and  consumers  accusing  each  other  of  intransigence  .  "  Brazil  would  not  tolerate  a  change  in  ICO  regulations  ,  which  others  wanted  changed  ,"  one  senior  coffee  dealer  said  .  The  dealer  ,  who  declined  to  be  named  ,  said  Brazil  wanted  to  preserve  its  market  share  .  At  the  end  of  the  talks  ,  he  said  Brazil  hinted  it  could  sell  more  than  anyone  else  and  others  would  suffer  .  Brazil  will  be  an  aggressive  seller  under  any  scenario  but  as  yet  there  is  no  sign  of  unusually  heavy  Brazilian  sales  ,  the  dealer  said  .  "  If  they  do  come  into  the  market  at  this  level  it  will  go  lower  and  you  could  breach  a  dollar  ,  ninety  or  eighty  cents  ,"  he  said  .  New  York  coffee  futures  for  May  delivery  settled  2  .  29  cents  lower  Thursday  at  104  .  68  cents  a  lb  ,  while  more  distant  deliveries  fell  the  six  -  cent  maximum  trading  limit  .  President  of  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  Jorio  Dauster  told  a  press  conference  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  today  that  Brazil  has  no  set  target  for  its  coffee  exports  following  the  breakdown  of  the  ICO  talks  on  export  quotas  .  Many  economists  and  analysts  believe  soybeans  could  be  the  focus  of  possible  stepped  -  up  Brazilian  marketing  efforts  .  "  They  will  be  more  aggressive  this  year  than  they  have  ever  been  ,"  according  to  Richard  Loewy  ,  analyst  for  Prudential  -  Bache  Securities  Inc  .  Loewy  believes  the  foreign  debt  problem  ,  a  good  crop  ,  plus  difficulties  with  storage  would  help  motivate  selling  of  the  Brazil  soybean  crop  .  "  Brazilian  farmers  also  need  cash  flow  and  they  can  '  t  afford  to  store  the  crops  ,"  he  said  .  The  Chicago  soybean  complex  has  been  nervous  for  some  time  about  large  South  American  crops  developing  under  near  ideal  conditions  towards  record  yields  .  "  We  are  going  to  see  a  very  rapid  decline  ,  earlier  than  usual  ,  this  year  in  our  (  U  .  S  .)  exports  ,"  Loewy  said  .  Tommy  Eshleman  ,  economist  for  the  American  Soybean  Association  (  ASA  ),  said  this  year  '  s  Brazilian  soybean  harvest  could  total  18  mln  tonnes  ,  versus  13  .  7  mln  last  year  .  Marketings  will  be  very  aggressive  this  summer  when  prices  are  usually  high  relative  to  the  rest  of  the  year  due  to  the  vulnerability  of  the  U  .  S  .  crop  to  bad  growing  weather  .  Another  incentive  to  sell  might  be  trade  anticipation  of  a  reduction  in  the  U  .  S  .  government  soybean  loan  rate  ,  offered  to  farmers  who  give  crops  as  collateral  ,  Eshleman  said  .  He  said  there  has  been  some  uncertainty  this  year  about  the  soybean  loan  rate  ,  which  acts  as  an  effective  floor  for  prices  by  keeping  supplies  away  from  the  free  market  .  Farmers  can  forfeit  their  beans  to  the  government  rather  than  repay  the  loan  .  "  We  '  re  getting  into  a  period  when  they  (  Brazil  )  are  starting  to  harvest  and  starting  to  export  ,"  Eshleman  said  .  But  he  added  it  will  be  a  while  before  U  .  S  .  exports  fall  to  below  10  mln  bushels  a  week  from  around  20  mln  bushels  currently  .  Jose  Melicias  from  the  research  department  of  Drexel  Burnham  Lambert  said  Brazil  would  be  trying  to  export  as  much  as  it  can  this  year  because  of  its  economic  situation  .  He  said  the  debt  situation  was  a  major  consideration  .  "  The  Brazilian  government  also  does  not  have  enough  money  to  pay  for  storage  ,"  he  added  .  Asked  if  a  return  to  an  inflationary  environment  in  Brazil  would  make  farmers  inclined  to  hold  onto  crops  ,  Melicias  said  it  would  not  make  a  big  difference  .  On  other  commodity  markets  ,  Brazil  '  s  selling  impact  may  be  muted  no  matter  its  need  to  generate  capital  .  Brazil  is  faced  with  a  poor  1986  /  87  sugar  harvest  ,  which  could  limit  exports  to  the  world  market  ,  analysts  said  .  The  country  may  have  oversold  and  be  unable  to  honor  export  commitments  ,  and  this  plus  higher  domestic  demand  caused  by  consumer  price  subsidies  on  ethanol  and  refined  sugar  ,  will  give  it  little  room  to  stretch  exports  ,  they  said  .  Brazil  '  s  other  major  crop  ,  cocoa  ,  is  in  its  third  year  of  surplus  .  "  Cocoa  consumption  is  basically  flat  and  last  year  it  fell  ,  so  I  don  '  t  think  they  can  start  throwing  out  cocoa  and  find  many  more  markets  for  it  ,"  one  analyst  said  .  "  If  they  come  out  as  aggressive  sellers  ,  the  market  would  collapse  and  they  can  '  t  afford  to  do  that  ,"  she  added  .  MEXICO  SUSPENDS  OVERSEAS  COFFEE  SALES  Mexico  has  temporarily  suspended  overseas  coffee  sales  due  to  falling  prices  triggered  by  the  failure  of  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  meeting  to  agree  a  quota  system  at  its  latest  meeting  ,  the  official  Notimex  news  agency  said  .  "  We  '  re  just  waiting  a  while  for  prices  to  improve  ,"  an  unidentified  Mexican  trader  told  the  agency  .  Mexico  has  already  sold  80  pct  of  its  export  coffee  produced  in  the  year  to  last  September  ,  the  source  said  .  The  country  exports  about  3  .  3  mln  60  -  kilo  bags  a  year  .  COSTA  RICA  OPTIMISTIC  ABOUT  REFORMING  ICO  Costa  Rica  '  s  economy  minister  said  he  sees  new  hope  for  winning  changes  in  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  system  of  export  quotas  .  Minister  Luis  Diego  Escalante  ,  who  serves  as  president  of  the  Costa  Rican  Coffee  Institute  ,  said  he  was  hopeful  because  of  the  support  offered  Costa  Rica  and  other  smaller  producing  -  nations  by  such  major  consumers  as  the  United  States  ,  Britain  and  the  Netherlands  at  last  week  '  s  ICO  meeting  in  london  .  Escalante  told  a  news  conference  here  he  "  carried  the  weight  of  the  negotiations  "  at  the  meeting  by  calling  for  larger  export  quotas  for  the  smaller  coffee  -  growing  nations  .  Costa  rica  is  insisting  ,  Escalante  said  ,  on  a  new  quota  system  based  on  a  producing  nation  '  s  real  export  capacity  ,  once  it  has  satisfied  internal  demand  .  "  There  are  countries  such  as  our  own  whose  sales  possibilities  are  close  to  or  above  100  pct  of  their  current  quotas  ,"  Escalante  said  .  At  the  same  time  ,  there  are  countries  favoured  by  the  current  system  that  have  been  assigned  quotas  far  above  their  export  potential  ,  he  said  .  The  current  ICO  quota  system  is  "  unfair  and  autocratic  ,"  Escalante  said  .  Escalante  attributed  the  nosedive  in  international  coffee  prices  over  the  last  week  to  speculation  rather  than  real  matters  of  supply  and  demand  .  "  Be  careful  ,"  he  warned  ,  "  there  '  s  not  as  much  coffee  in  the  world  as  they  say  .  What  there  is  are  bags  of  sawdust  ."  ICO  QUOTA  TALKS  FAILURE  PARALYSE  HAMBURG  MARKET  The  failure  of  International  Coffee  Organization  talks  on  the  reintroduction  of  quotas  has  paralysed  business  on  the  Hamburg  green  coffee  market  in  the  past  week  ,  trade  sources  said  .  There  was  only  sporadic  activity  for  spot  material  ,  which  was  mainly  requirement  buying  ,  they  said  ,  adding  that  pre  -  registered  coffees  were  no  longer  available  .  They  said  they  expected  Brazil  and  Colombia  to  open  export  registrations  for  May  shipment  next  week  .  However  ,  the  president  of  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  Jorio  Dauster  ,  said  yesterday  he  had  not  yet  decided  when  its  registrations  would  reopen  .  INDONESIAN  TEA  ,  COCOA  EXPORTS  SEEN  UP  ,  COFFEE  DOWN  Indonesia  '  s  exports  of  tea  and  cocoa  will  continue  to  rise  in  calendar  1987  but  coffee  exports  are  forecast  to  dip  slightly  in  1987  /  88  (  April  -  March  )  as  the  government  tries  to  improve  quality  ,  the  U  .  S  .  Embassy  said  .  The  embassy  '  s  annual  report  on  Indonesian  agriculture  forecast  coffee  output  in  1986  /  87  would  be  5  .  77  mln  bags  of  60  kilograms  each  .  That  is  slightly  less  than  the  5  .  8  mln  bags  produced  in  1985  /  86  .  In  1987  /  88  coffee  production  is  forecast  to  rise  again  to  5  .  8  mln  bags  ,  but  exports  to  dip  to  4  .  8  mln  from  around  5  .  0  mln  in  1986  /  87  .  Exports  in  1985  /  86  were  4  .  67  mln  bags  .  The  embassy  report  says  coffee  stocks  will  rise  to  1  .  3  mln  tonnes  in  1987  /  88  from  1  .  15  mln  in  1986  /  87  .  It  bases  this  on  a  fall  in  exports  as  a  result  of  the  "  probable  "  re  -  introduction  of  quotas  by  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  .  Cocoa  production  and  exports  are  forecast  to  rise  steadily  as  the  government  develops  cocoa  plantations  .  Production  of  cocoa  in  Indonesia  increased  to  32  ,  378  tonnes  in  calendar  1985  from  10  ,  284  tonnes  in  1980  .  It  is  projected  by  the  government  to  rise  to  more  than  50  ,  000  tonnes  by  1988  .  Production  in  1986  is  estimated  by  the  embassy  at  35  ,  000  tonnes  ,  as  against  38  ,  000  tonnes  in  1987  .  The  report  forecasts  cocoa  exports  to  rise  to  35  ,  000  tonnes  this  year  ,  from  33  ,  000  tonnes  in  1986  and  31  ,  000  in  1985  .  The  Netherlands  is  at  present  the  biggest  importer  of  Indonesian  cocoa  beans  .  The  report  forecasts  that  in  calendar  1987  ,  Indonesia  '  s  CTC  (  crushed  ,  torn  and  curled  )  tea  exports  will  increase  significantly  with  the  coming  on  stream  of  at  least  eight  new  CTC  processing  plants  .  Indonesia  plans  to  diversify  its  tea  products  by  producing  more  CTC  tea  ,  the  main  component  of  tea  bags  .  Production  of  black  and  green  teas  is  forecast  in  the  embassy  report  to  rise  to  125  ,  000  tonnes  in  calendar  1987  from  123  ,  000  tonnes  in  1986  .  Exports  of  these  teas  are  likely  to  rise  to  95  ,  000  tonnes  in  1987  from  85  ,  000  in  1986  and  around  90  ,  000  in  1985  .  The  embassy  noted  the  ministry  of  trade  tightened  quality  controls  on  tea  in  October  1986  in  an  effort  to  become  more  competititve  in  the  world  market  .  ICO  TALKS  ON  COFFEE  QUOTAS  TO  RESUME  AT  NOON  Talks  on  coffee  export  quotas  at  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  special  council  session  will  resume  at  noon  gmt  today  ,  following  a  last  minute  decision  taken  early  this  morning  to  extend  the  meeting  24  hours  ,  ICO  officials  said  .  An  18  member  contact  group  will  meet  at  midday  to  examine  new  ideas  ,  and  the  full  council  is  to  convene  at  1900gmt  ,  they  said  .  The  extension  resulted  from  a  last  ditch  effort  by  Colombia  to  salvage  the  talks  ,  which  by  late  yesterday  looked  perilously  close  to  ending  without  agreement  on  quotas  ,  delegates  said  .  COLOMBIA  DENIES  SELLING  COFFEE  BELOW  MARKET  Colombia  denied  having  sold  440  ,  000  60  -  kg  bags  of  old  crop  coffee  below  current  market  prices  to  clients  in  Europe  and  Asia  .  A  spokesman  for  the  National  Coffee  Growers  Federation  ,  commenting  on  rumours  which  had  circulated  in  market  circles  ,  said  these  were  false  .  UGANDA  DISAPPOINTED  BY  COFFEE  TALKS  FAILURE  Uganda  ,  Africa  '  s  second  largest  coffee  producer  ,  was  disappointed  by  the  stalemate  in  recent  coffee  talks  in  London  ,  the  chairman  of  the  state  -  run  Coffee  Marketing  Board  ,  CMB  ,  said  .  "  This  has  not  been  good  for  coffee  producers  ,  more  so  in  a  situation  where  the  prices  dropped  by  200  pounds  per  tonne  of  robusta  coffee  ,"  J  .  Makumbi  said  when  he  returned  from  London  on  Friday  .  Producers  and  consumers  failed  to  agree  on  a  quota  formula  to  share  the  world  '  s  coffee  production  during  International  Coffee  Organisation  ,  ICO  ,  talks  that  ended  last  week  .  Makumbi  blamed  the  failure  to  set  quotas  ,  which  were  suspended  in  Feburary  last  year  ,  on  Indonesian  demands  that  its  quota  be  increased  dramatically  .  Uganda  --  which  earns  about  400  mln  dlrs  annually  from  coffee  exports  ,  over  95  pct  of  its  foreign  exchange  earnings  --  had  sought  to  raise  its  ICO  quota  to  3  .  0  mln  from  2  .  45  mln  60  -  kilo  bags  ,  according  to  sources  close  to  the  CMB  .  The  CMB  has  estimated  that  production  will  rise  20  to  25  pct  in  the  current  1986  /  87  October  -  September  season  to  over  three  mln  bags  .  For  several  years  Uganda  had  been  unable  to  meet  its  ICO  export  quota  as  rebel  activity  disrupted  the  coffee  industry  .  The  Ugandan  government  depends  on  coffee  export  duties  for  about  60  pct  of  its  sales  tax  revenue  and  the  industry  employs  over  half  of  salaried  manpower  .  In  Dar  es  Salaam  ,  Tanzania  '  s  Agriculture  and  Livestock  Development  Minister  Paul  Bomani  said  today  Third  World  countries  would  suffer  from  the  failure  of  the  London  coffee  talks  .  "  It  is  only  the  middlemen  who  will  benefit  ,  he  said  .  Bomani  called  on  the  ICO  to  convene  another  meeting  within  two  months  ,  saying  ,  "  Once  tempers  have  cooled  and  delegations  have  had  time  to  report  back  to  their  headquarters  ,  common  sense  will  prevail  ."  BRAZILIAN  COFFEE  RAINFALL  THE  FOLLOWING  RAINFALL  WAS  RECORDED  IN  THE  AREAS  OVER  PAST  72  HOURS  PARANA  STATE  :  UMUARAMA  NIL  ,  PARANAVAI  1  .  5  MILLIMETRES  ,  LONDRINA  NIL  ,  MARINGA  NIL  .  SAO  PAULO  STATE  :  PRESIDENTE  PRUDENTE  O  .  6  MM  ,  VOTUPORANGA  12  .  0  MM  ,  FRANCA  28  .  0  MM  ,  CATANDUVA  10  .  0  MM  ,  SAO  CARLOS  NIL  ,  SAO  SIMAO  NIL  .  REUTER11  :  43  /  VB  BRAZIL  TREASURY  TO  RELEASE  COFFEE  BUYING  FUNDS  The  Treasury  Department  is  due  to  release  funds  for  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  to  pay  for  the  coffee  purchased  from  local  producers  ,  the  IBC  said  in  a  statement  .  IBC  production  director  Oripes  Gomes  said  in  the  statement  that  payment  would  be  made  within  the  official  guarantee  prices  .  The  statement  said  the  IBC  is  sending  a  document  to  the  National  Monetary  Council  asking  the  government  to  set  a  budget  for  the  purchase  by  the  Institute  of  up  to  five  mln  bags  of  coffee  until  June  30  .  Gomes  said  in  the  statement  there  have  been  no  problems  in  the  concession  of  funds  by  the  Treasury  for  payment  of  the  coffee  delivered  to  the  IBC  warehouses  by  the  producers  .  He  said  producers  have  already  delivered  2  .  2  mln  bags  ,  of  which  1  .  5  mln  bags  have  been  paid  for  .  In  the  future  ,  according  to  an  agreement  to  be  signed  with  the  Treasury  ,  the  Institute  will  no  longer  need  to  seek  approval  by  the  Treasury  to  seek  the  release  of  additional  funds  to  buy  coffee  ,  the  statement  said  .  LCE  AND  IPE  ELECT  FIRST  TRADED  OPTIONS  MEMBERS  The  first  23  members  have  been  elected  to  the  joint  traded  options  facility  of  the  London  Commodity  Exchange  (  LCE  )  and  the  International  Petroleum  exchange  (  IPE  ),  the  exchanges  said  in  a  statement  .  More  firms  have  applied  and  the  final  tranche  will  be  admitted  on  April  one  and  trading  is  planned  to  start  in  early  June  on  the  new  trading  floor  on  Commodity  Quay  .  Traded  options  need  a  volatile  and  liquid  futures  base  to  succeed  and  chairman  of  the  joint  formation  committee  Jack  Patterson  said  the  existing  LCE  cocoa  ,  coffee  ,  sugar  and  IPE  gas  oil  contracts  should  have  no  difficulty  in  providing  this  .  ALGERIA  REGULATES  USE  OF  COFFEE  ADDITIVES  The  Algerian  authorities  have  regulated  the  addition  of  chickpeas  and  barley  used  to  make  imported  coffee  go  further  ,  the  official  APS  news  agency  reported  .  Taking  advantage  of  scarcity  ,  private  roasters  were  selling  ground  coffee  mixtures  which  were  75  pct  non  -  coffee  ,  it  said  .  Since  the  beginning  of  March  ,  the  coffee  market  has  been  strictly  regulated  by  the  state  food  marketing  monopoly  Enapal  .  Now  a  third  of  imported  coffee  will  be  sold  as  pure  beans  and  two  thirds  as  a  ground  mixture  with  a  choice  of  30  pct  chickpeas  or  30  pct  barley  .  In  March  private  dealers  will  handle  2  ,  050  tonnes  of  pure  coffee  and  Enapal  6  ,  050  tonnes  of  mixtures  .  BRAZIL  COFFEE  EXPORTS  DISRUPTED  BY  STRIKE  An  11  -  day  -  old  strike  by  Brazilian  seamen  is  affecting  coffee  shipments  and  could  lead  to  a  short  term  supply  squeeze  abroad  ,  exporters  said  .  They  could  not  quantify  how  much  coffee  has  been  delayed  but  said  at  least  40  pct  of  coffee  exports  are  carried  by  Brazilian  ships  and  movement  of  foreign  vessels  has  also  been  disrupted  by  port  congestion  caused  by  the  strike  .  A  series  of  labor  disputes  and  bad  weather  has  meant  Brazil  '  s  coffee  exports  have  been  running  at  an  average  two  weeks  behind  schedule  since  the  start  of  the  year  ,  one  source  added  .  By  the  end  of  February  shipments  had  fallen  800  ,  000  bags  behind  registrations  ,  leaving  around  2  .  4  mln  bags  to  be  shipped  during  March  .  By  March  10  only  230  ,  000  bags  had  been  shipped  ,  the  sources  said  .  Given  Brazil  '  s  port  loading  capacity  of  around  100  ,  000  bags  a  day  ,  even  if  normal  operations  were  resumed  immediately  and  not  interrupted  by  bad  weather  ,  some  March  registered  coffee  will  inevitably  be  shipped  during  April  ,  they  added  .  COFFEE  QUOTA  TALKS  CONTINUE  BUT  NO  AGREEMENT  YET  Coffee  quota  talks  at  the  International  Coffee  Organization  council  meeting  here  continued  this  afternoon  ,  but  producers  and  consumers  still  had  not  reached  common  ground  on  the  key  issue  of  how  to  estimate  export  quotas  ,  delegates  said  .  The  54  member  contact  group  was  examining  a  Colombian  proposal  to  resume  quotas  April  1  under  the  ad  hoc  system  used  historically  ,  with  a  pledge  to  meet  again  in  September  to  discuss  how  quotas  would  be  worked  out  in  the  future  ,  they  said  .  Delegates  would  not  speculate  on  the  prospects  for  agreement  at  this  time  .  "  Anything  could  happen  ,"  one  delegate  said  .  INDONESIAN  COFFEE  PRODUCTION  MAY  FALL  THIS  YEAR  Indonesia  '  s  coffee  production  in  1986  /  87  ending  September  30  may  fall  slightly  from  last  year  '  s  level  of  360  ,  000  tonnes  ,  Dharyono  Kertosastro  ,  chairman  of  the  Association  of  Indonesian  Coffee  Exporters  told  Reuters  .  He  said  shade  trees  had  been  damaged  by  pests  and  this  may  have  affected  the  crop  ,  though  it  remains  to  be  seen  how  seriously  .  Indonesia  '  s  main  crop  is  harvested  next  month  .  He  gave  no  figure  for  expected  output  ,  except  to  say  it  would  probably  be  down  a  little  from  1985  /  86  .  He  said  stocks  were  about  normal  at  90  ,  000  tonnes  .  Kertosastro  predicted  that  exports  were  unlikely  to  rise  much  from  last  year  '  s  level  of  320  ,  000  tonnes  .  "  I  expect  exports  will  be  a  bit  more  ,  maybe  330  ,  000  tonnes  ,  but  not  above  that  ,"  he  said  .  Exports  in  1985  /  86  were  valued  at  944  mln  U  .  S  .  Dlrs  ,  but  the  value  could  fall  by  30  pct  this  year  because  of  low  prices  ,  he  added  .  Dharyono  said  production  was  behind  a  five  year  plan  target  of  420  ,  000  tonnes  for  the  current  year  ,  but  Indonesia  is  trying  to  boost  output  through  introduction  of  higher  yielding  seeds  ,  better  training  for  farmers  and  increased  use  of  fertilizers  .  INDONESIA  PRESSING  FOR  COMPROMISE  OVER  COFFEE  Indonesian  coffee  exporters  are  preparing  for  a  period  of  depressed  prices  while  urging  their  government  to  lobby  for  a  resolution  of  the  deadlocked  issue  of  export  quotas  ,  the  chairman  of  the  Association  of  Indonesian  Coffee  Exporters  (  AICE  )  told  Reuters  .  Dharyono  Kertosastro  said  in  an  interview  that  Indonesia  ,  the  world  '  s  third  largest  producer  ,  is  trimming  costs  and  improving  its  marketing  while  seeking  a  compromise  on  quotas  .  "  But  as  long  as  Brazil  sticks  to  its  hardline  position  ,  we  can  never  bridge  the  gap  ,"  Dharyono  said  .  Indonesia  was  one  of  a  group  of  eight  producing  countries  ,  along  with  Costa  Rica  ,  the  Dominican  Republic  ,  Ecuador  ,  Honduras  ,  India  ,  Papua  New  Guinea  and  Peru  ,  which  proposed  a  new  quota  system  at  last  month  '  s  failed  International  Coffee  Organistion  (  ICO  )  talks  in  London  .  Brazil  ,  which  would  have  had  its  quota  reduced  under  the  Group  of  Eight  scheme  ,  blocked  the  proposal  .  AICE  officials  are  now  hoping  Colombia  can  use  its  contacts  with  Brazil  to  suggest  a  compromise  .  Edward  Muda  ,  an  AICE  official  who  attended  the  ICO  negotiations  ,  said  Latin  American  members  of  the  Group  of  Eight  were  in  contact  with  Colombia  ,  the  world  '  s  second  largest  producer  ,  but  gave  no  details  .  "  Colombia  has  shown  interest  because  they  will  gain  from  a  compromise  .  Without  one  ,  they  will  suffer  if  the  present  market  stays  like  it  is  ,"  Muda  said  .  He  said  Indonesia  was  in  contact  with  consumers  such  as  the  U  .  S  .,  Japan  ,  the  Netherlands  ,  West  Germany  and  Canada  ahead  of  an  ICO  executive  board  meeting  scheduled  for  April  1  .  Dharyono  said  the  AICE  will  send  delegations  to  the  U  .  S  .  And  Japan  to  brief  Indonesian  embassy  officials  there  and  press  them  to  present  Indonesia  '  s  case  more  firmly  .  He  urged  the  Indonesian  government  to  do  more  to  help  the  country  '  s  coffee  traders  through  the  ICO  negotiations  .  Muda  said  the  Group  of  Eight  had  some  common  ground  with  the  big  consumers  because  they  agreed  on  the  need  for  basing  quotas  on  what  he  termed  "  realistic  criteria  ."  The  breakaway  group  believes  the  old  quota  system  ,  which  gives  Brazil  a  30  pct  share  of  the  quota  exports  ,  does  not  reflect  up  -  to  -  date  supply  and  demand  trends  .  Brazil  has  stuck  rigidly  to  its  insistence  that  the  old  system  be  applied  .  Export  quotas  were  suspended  in  February  1986  when  market  prices  surged  because  of  the  failure  of  the  Brazilian  crop  .  Although  prices  have  long  since  come  down  to  a  point  where  export  controls  could  be  reintroduced  ,  producers  and  consumers  at  the  75  -  member  ICO  have  not  been  able  to  agree  on  new  guidelines  .  Brazil  and  the  U  .  S  .,  The  largest  consumer  ,  are  both  refusing  to  alter  their  positions  .  Dharyono  said  if  new  quotas  are  not  agreed  he  believed  Indonesia  was  well  placed  to  survive  low  prices  .  Indonesian  farmers  are  trimming  production  costs  and  the  AICE  is  improving  its  marketing  system  ,  Dharyono  said  .  Indonesia  '  s  coffee  output  in  1986  /  87  ,  ending  September  30  ,  is  expected  to  stagnate  or  fall  slightly  from  last  year  '  s  level  of  360  ,  000  tonnes  ,  he  said  .  He  said  stocks  ,  at  90  ,  000  tonnes  ,  were  about  average  for  the  time  of  year  .  JACOBS  SUCHARD  SEES  100  ,  000  TONNE  COCOA  SURPLUS  Jacobs  Suchard  AG  expects  a  world  cocoa  surplus  of  around  100  ,  000  tonnes  in  1987  compared  with  a  104  ,  000  tonne  surplus  in  1986  ,  Jens  Sroka  ,  head  of  commodity  buying  ,  told  a  news  conference  .  The  company  expects  prices  to  remain  at  around  current  levels  despite  the  likelihood  of  agreement  on  buffer  stock  rules  at  the  forthcoming  London  cocoa  talks  ,  and  believes  market  intervention  by  the  buffer  stock  manager  would  stabilise  prices  .  Sroka  said  world  coffee  prices  are  expected  to  remain  weak  if  any  international  coffee  talks  fail  to  produce  agreement  .  Sroka  said  stagnating  consumption  and  slight  overproduction  will  continue  to  weigh  on  coffee  prices  and  he  forecast  a  continued  build  -  up  in  stocks  .  The  recent  failure  of  the  London  coffee  talks  had  surprised  market  observers  .  Unless  reason  prevails  and  the  major  producers  return  to  the  conference  table  ,  the  world  coffee  market  will  remain  free  and  the  consequences  for  some  producers  dependant  on  coffee  for  their  foreign  exchange  earnings  would  be  catastrophic  ,  Sroka  added  .  ICO  PRODUCERS  TO  PRESENT  NEW  COFFEE  PROPOSAL  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  producing  countries  will  present  a  proposal  for  reintroducing  export  quotas  for  12  months  from  April  1  with  a  firm  undertaking  to  try  to  negotiate  up  to  September  30  any  future  quota  distribution  on  a  new  basis  ,  ICO  delegates  said  .  Distribution  from  April  1  would  be  on  an  unchanged  basis  as  in  an  earlier  producer  proposal  ,  which  includes  shortfall  redistributions  totalling  1  .  22  mln  bags  ,  they  said  .  Resumption  of  an  ICO  contact  group  meeting  with  consumers  ,  scheduled  for  this  evening  ,  has  been  postponed  until  tomorrow  ,  delegates  said  .  NO  NEAR  TERM  BRAZIL  COFFEE  MOVES  EXPECTED  The  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  is  unlikely  to  disclose  its  future  export  policy  until  the  end  of  next  week  at  the  earliest  ,  trade  sources  said  .  IBC  president  Jorio  Dauster  is  meeting  government  ministers  ,  producers  ,  exporters  and  market  analysts  to  assess  Brazil  '  s  position  in  the  light  of  the  failure  of  talks  in  London  earlier  this  month  to  set  new  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  export  quotas  .  "  The  failure  of  the  talks  means  Brazil  has  got  to  rethink  its  position  completely  ,"  one  Santos  exporter  said  .  A  meeting  of  the  National  Coffee  Policy  Council  is  set  for  Thursday  ,  March  19  ,  and  Dauster  will  almost  certainly  explain  his  plan  to  members  then  before  announcing  any  new  measures  .  Dauster  told  reporters  on  his  return  from  London  last  week  that  no  decisions  would  be  made  on  exports  before  he  had  held  talks  with  all  sectors  of  the  industry  .  Exporters  said  Dauster  is  not  under  any  great  pressure  to  start  marketing  coffee  immediately  .  World  prices  have  been  recovering  from  the  lows  which  followed  the  collapse  of  the  ICO  talks  and  Brazil  has  sold  a  reasonable  5  .  5  mln  bags  of  60  kilos  for  export  in  the  first  four  months  of  this  year  .  The  exporters  said  the  key  factor  in  the  eventual  opening  of  May  and  June  export  registrations  will  be  the  amount  at  which  the  contribution  quota  is  set  .  With  little  expectation  of  other  sales  incentive  mechanisms  such  as  discounts  ,  bonuses  and  price  fall  guarantees  being  introduced  ,  the  level  of  the  quota  will  be  decisive  in  determining  the  competitiveness  of  Brazilian  coffee  on  world  markets  ,  they  said  .  They  noted  that  on  February  16  ,  the  eve  of  a  planned  increase  in  the  quota  ,  April  registrations  were  opened  and  closed  after  1  .  68  mln  bags  were  registered  for  export  ,  a  record  amount  for  a  single  day  .  If  May  /  June  registrations  are  opened  under  similar  conditions  as  before  ,  Brazil  would  have  no  difficulty  in  selling  at  least  2  .  0  mln  bags  per  month  .  "  The  problem  would  be  how  to  limit  sales  ,"  one  exporter  said  .  Brazil  '  s  present  foreign  trade  and  payments  problems  mean  there  are  pressures  from  the  government  to  boost  exports  to  maximise  foreign  exchange  earnings  .  However  ,  the  sources  said  they  expect  the  IBC  to  adopt  a  marketing  strategy  aimed  at  regaining  Brazil  '  s  dominant  position  as  an  exporter  ,  but  without  causing  a  price  war  .  General  opinion  among  exporters  was  that  Brazil  would  plan  to  export  between  17  and  18  mln  bags  this  year  of  which  between  1  .  5  and  2  .  0  mln  would  be  to  non  -  members  of  the  ICO  .  The  15  .  5  mln  to  16  mln  bags  sold  to  members  would  be  around  the  figure  Brazil  had  offered  to  ship  if  ICO  quotas  were  reintroduced  ,  although  Dauster  has  said  this  offer  expired  with  the  breakdown  of  talks  .  With  the  prospects  of  a  crop  of  at  least  28  mln  bags  this  year  ,  Brazil  has  the  capacity  to  export  up  to  20  mln  bags  after  meeting  local  consumption  of  around  7  .  0  mln  ,  the  sources  added  .  However  ,  the  sources  said  Brazil  is  unlikely  even  to  consider  exporting  such  quantities  ,  as  this  would  almost  inevitably  lead  to  a  fall  in  world  prices  as  Brazil  tried  to  encroach  on  other  producers  '  markets  .  Maximum  export  earnings  would  be  achieved  by  orderly  marketing  of  traditional  amounts  ,  thus  re  -  establishing  Brazil  '  s  market  share  after  last  year  '  s  unusually  low  exports  of  9  .  9  mln  bags  ,  enabling  it  to  rebuild  stocks  and  maintaining  cordial  relations  with  the  producer  group  which  backed  Brazil  '  s  stance  at  the  ICO  talks  ,  they  added  .  ICO  BOARD  MEETING  DELAYED  ONE  DAY  The  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  executive  board  meeting  scheduled  for  the  end  of  this  month  has  been  delayed  by  one  day  and  will  now  run  from  March  31  to  April  2  and  not  March  30  to  April  1  ,  ICO  officials  said  .  On  March  30  ,  the  ICO  ad  hoc  working  group  will  meet  to  consider  management  consultants  Ernst  &  amp  ;  Whinney  '  s  report  on  the  ICO  secretariat  .  This  report  was  commissioned  late  last  year  to  report  on  the  administrative  structure  of  the  ICO  .  COLOMBIA  '  S  COFFEE  MARKETING  TO  BE  MORE  FLEXIBLE  Colombia  intends  to  improve  the  marketing  of  its  coffee  with  the  accent  on  more  flexibility  on  setting  export  registration  prices  ,  finance  minister  Cesar  Gaviria  said  .  Speaking  to  reporters  after  announcing  a  lower  export  registration  price  ,  or  reintegro  ,  of  1  .  10  dlr  per  lb  ex  -  dock  New  York  ,  Gaviria  said  export  mechanisms  would  be  more  agile  .  "  In  the  first  stage  ,  we  decided  not  only  to  lower  the  reintegro  but  also  to  adopt  a  flexible  policy  of  reintegro  that  will  allow  private  exporters  to  participate  more  actively  in  Colombia  '  s  coffee  export  policy  ,"  he  said  .  Traders  said  this  means  the  export  registration  price  will  change  more  often  in  a  truer  reflection  of  market  trends  .  Gaviria  said  the  measures  merely  responded  to  new  market  factors  since  a  return  to  a  system  of  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  export  quotas  may  not  occur  in  the  short  term  .  ICO  talks  last  month  in  London  failed  to  break  a  deadlock  over  re  -  introduction  of  export  quotas  ,  suspended  in  February  1986  .  Gaviria  stressed  that  Colombia  will  not  necessarily  suffer  from  depressed  prices  because  it  can  compensate  lower  prices  with  increased  volume  .  "  Colombia  will  continue  to  export  its  traditional  amount  of  coffee  ,  between  9  .  6  and  10  mln  bags  (  of  60  kilos  ),  and  will  do  so  without  an  agreement  among  producers  ,"  he  said  .  He  ruled  out  a  much  higher  volume  of  exports  ,  or  up  to  13  .  5  mln  bags  as  mentioned  in  market  circles  ,  "  because  the  idea  is  precisely  not  to  disrupt  the  market  ."  Colombia  exported  a  record  11  .  5  mln  bags  in  the  1985  /  86  coffee  year  which  ended  last  September  30  .  Echoing  Gaviria  '  s  words  ,  Jorge  Cardenas  ,  manager  of  the  national  coffee  growers  '  federation  ,  said  Colombia  sought  to  adapt  its  coffee  marketing  policy  to  circumstances  .  "  There  is  great  expectation  in  the  world  for  the  policies  that  Brazil  and  Colombia  will  adopt  .  Ours  is  beginning  to  emerge  and  no  agreement  among  producers  is  foreseeable  in  the  immediate  future  ,"  he  told  journalists  .  Trade  sources  in  Rio  today  said  Brazil  '  s  future  export  policy  was  unlikely  to  be  revealed  before  the  end  of  next  week  .  Cardenas  said  a  new  ICO  meeting  could  only  take  place  when  problems  that  hindered  an  agreement  at  the  recent  London  talks  have  been  resolved  .  Asked  to  comment  on  a  Reuter  report  from  Jakarta  saying  Indonesia  hoped  Colombia  could  use  its  contacts  with  Brazil  to  suggest  a  compromise  on  the  quota  issue  ,  Cardenas  said  the  Brazilian  stand  was  quite  clear  .  He  said  Brazil  '  s  current  quota  "  reflects  the  reality  of  the  market  ,  allows  for  an  orderly  supply  and  satisfies  demand  ,"  but  added  more  clarity  was  needed  to  assess  the  criteria  that  determined  it  .  Cardenas  said  lows  registered  immediately  after  the  failure  of  the  London  talks  were  triggered  by  a  widespread  fear  among  dealers  of  an  imminent  price  war  and  the  belief  that  producers  would  go  out  and  sell  their  coffee  as  quickly  as  possible  ,  which  did  not  happen  .  UGANDA  RE  -  ROUTES  COFFEE  EXPORTS  THROUGH  KISUMU  Long  delays  at  the  railway  crossing  on  the  Kenyan  border  have  led  Uganda  to  re  -  route  its  coffee  exports  through  a  ferry  link  with  the  Kenyan  port  of  Kisumu  across  Lake  Victoria  ,  Ugandan  officials  based  in  Kenya  said  .  Uganda  has  a  direct  rail  link  with  the  Kenyan  port  of  Mombasa  through  which  it  conducts  70  pct  of  its  external  trade  but  there  is  a  chronic  shortage  of  railway  wagons  ,  they  said  .  Customs  at  Kisumu  take  less  than  a  day  compared  with  two  to  three  at  the  Malaba  rail  border  crossing  ,  a  Ugandan  Railways  official  said  .  "  Malaba  is  now  handling  only  10  pct  of  the  trade  and  all  the  coffee  and  oil  goes  through  Kisumu  ,"  he  said  .  However  ,  an  accident  recently  damaged  the  wagon  ferry  which  plies  between  Kisumu  and  the  Ugandan  port  of  Jinja  ,  causing  bottlenecks  on  the  lake  route  too  .  Sources  at  the  Coffee  Marketing  Board  in  Kampala  reported  delays  in  coffee  export  shipments  last  January  due  to  congestion  on  the  lake  ferries  .  Coffee  accounts  for  about  95  pct  of  Uganda  '  s  export  earnings  and  last  November  President  Yoweri  Museveni  ordered  all  coffee  shipments  to  be  carried  by  rail  in  order  to  avoid  the  higher  costs  of  road  haulage  .  COLOMBIA  OPENS  APRIL  /  MAY  COFFEE  REGISTRATIONS  Colombia  opened  coffee  export  registrations  for  April  and  May  with  the  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  setting  no  limit  ,  Gilberto  Arango  ,  president  of  the  private  exporters  '  association  ,  said  .  He  told  Reuters  the  decision  not  to  put  any  limit  responded  to  "  new  factors  "  which  have  emerged  from  recent  International  Coffee  Organisation  talks  in  London  ,  where  producers  and  consumers  failed  to  agree  on  a  re  -  introduction  of  export  quotas  .  NO  HEAVY  COFFEE  EXPORT  IMPLIED  -  COLOMBIA  OFFICIAL  A  decision  by  Colombia  to  open  coffee  export  registrations  for  an  unlimited  amount  does  not  imply  the  country  will  heavily  sell  coffee  until  recently  withheld  ,  Gilberto  Arango  ,  president  of  the  private  exporters  '  association  ,  told  Reuters  .  Colombia  today  opened  export  registrations  for  april  and  may  ,  with  the  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  setting  no  limit  .  Since  the  start  of  the  coffee  year  last  october  ,  private  exporters  were  on  average  allowed  350  ,  000  bags  of  60  kilos  per  month  .  "  Traders  will  initially  interpret  this  measure  as  announcing  heavy  sales  .  Even  today  it  pressured  the  market  .  But  it  will  quickly  become  apparent  that  Colombia  does  not  intend  to  go  over  the  top  ,"  Arango  said  in  an  interview  .  "  Colombia  '  s  marketing  policy  is  to  sell  without  haste  but  consistently  .  No  targets  for  volume  will  be  set  .  We  will  react  to  market  factors  adequately  .  Colombia  has  no  intention  to  give  its  coffee  away  ,"  he  added  .  Arango  described  measures  adopted  here  yesterday  ,  including  a  lower  export  registration  price  ,  as  a  major  change  in  Colombia  '  s  coffee  marketing  policy  .  The  export  registration  price  ,  or  reintegro  ,  was  lowered  to  1  .  10  dlr  per  lb  ex  -  dock  new  york  ,  or  155  .  83  dlrs  per  bag  of  70  kilos  ,  from  1  .  35  dlrs  (  194  .  33  dlrs  ).  The  government  announced  a  more  flexible  policy  of  reintegro  ,  in  order  to  closely  reflect  market  trends  ,  which  arango  warmly  welcomed  saying  private  exporters  will  undoubtedly  be  more  actively  present  in  the  market  .  A  frequent  gap  between  international  market  prices  and  the  reintegro  was  unlikely  to  recur  ,  he  said  .  PATON  REPORTS  U  .  S  .  GREEN  COFFEE  ROASTINGS  HIGHER  U  .  S  .  roastings  of  green  coffee  in  the  week  ended  March  7  were  about  325  ,  000  (  60  -  kilo  )  bags  ,  including  that  used  for  soluble  production  ,  compared  with  290  ,  000  bags  in  the  corresponding  week  of  last  year  and  about  315  ,  000  bags  in  the  week  ended  February  28  ,  George  Gordon  Paton  and  Co  Inc  reported  .  It  said  cumulative  roastings  for  calendar  1987  now  total  a  3  ,  295  ,  000  bags  ,  compared  with  3  ,  620  ,  000  bags  by  this  time  last  year  .  COLOMBIA  COFFEE  EXPORTERS  BELIEVE  IN  PRAGMATISM  Private  coffee  exporters  say  Colombia  '  s  more  pragmatic  coffee  marketing  policy  will  ensure  that  the  country  does  not  suffer  excessively  from  current  depressed  prices  and  erratic  market  conditions  .  Gilberto  Arango  ,  president  of  the  exporters  '  association  ,  said  in  an  interview  that  Colombia  ,  the  world  '  s  second  largest  producer  ,  was  in  a  position  to  withstand  a  prolonged  absence  of  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  export  quotas  .  "  Colombia  is  one  of  the  countries  that  will  benefit  most  from  this  situation  ,"  he  said  .  Recent  ICO  talks  in  London  failed  to  break  a  deadlock  over  re  -  introduction  of  export  quotas  ,  suspended  in  February  1986  ,  and  no  date  has  been  set  for  a  new  meeting  on  the  issue  .  Arango  said  that  government  measures  adopted  here  last  week  ,  including  a  lower  export  registration  price  ,  indicated  a  major  change  but  also  disclosed  a  welcome  pragmatism  .  "  This  is  the  start  of  a  new  era  in  Colombia  because  world  market  conditions  are  also  new  ,"  he  said  .  The  government  lowered  local  taxes  for  exporters  and  said  the  export  registration  price  ,  or  reintegro  ,  will  be  changed  more  often  in  order  to  closely  reflect  market  trends  .  Arango  said  an  illustration  of  Colombia  '  s  new  attitude  was  the  decision  on  Friday  to  open  export  registrations  for  an  unlimited  amount  .  But  he  added  it  did  not  imply  the  country  would  begin  heavy  selling  of  coffee  .  "  Our  marketing  policy  is  to  sell  without  haste  but  consistently  .  No  targets  for  volume  will  be  set  .  We  will  react  to  market  factors  adequately  and  Colombia  has  no  intention  of  giving  its  coffee  away  ."  Colombia  '  s  past  records  should  be  the  basis  for  upcoming  exports  ,  he  said  .  "  We  will  certainly  not  export  seven  mln  (  60  -  kilo  )  bags  but  neither  are  we  going  to  sell  like  mad  .  The  trade  knows  full  well  what  Colombia  '  s  export  potential  is  ,"  he  said  .  Colombia  ,  with  stockpiles  standing  at  about  10  mln  bags  ,  exported  a  record  11  .  5  mln  bags  in  the  1985  /  86  coffee  year  which  ended  last  September  ,  and  11  .  3  mln  in  calendar  1986  .  Arango  did  not  want  to  commit  himself  on  export  predictions  but  said  that  output  for  the  1986  /  87  coffee  year  would  not  exceed  10  .  5  mln  bags  ,  compared  with  12  mln  forecast  by  the  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  and  12  .  5  mln  by  the  U  .  S  .  Department  of  Agriculture  ,  a  figure  he  said  was  "  ridiculous  ."  He  said  ageing  plantations  and  rust  ,  in  particular  in  the  number  one  producing  province  of  Antioquia  ,  meant  output  was  likely  to  fall  but  that  nationwide  estimates  were  rare  and  oscillated  between  9  .  5  mln  and  11  .  5  mln  bags  .  On  the  failure  of  the  recent  ICO  talks  ,  Arango  said  Colombia  understandably  felt  frustrated  at  not  having  managed  to  force  a  compromise  .  Jorge  Cardenas  ,  manager  of  the  national  federation  and  head  of  his  nation  '  s  delegation  in  London  ,  has  blamed  the  intransigence  of  some  big  countries  ,  without  naming  them  .  However  ,  Arango  ,  like  Colombian  Finance  Minister  Cesar  Gaviria  last  week  ,  was  more  explicit  and  said  the  United  States  would  undoubtedly  be  under  great  political  pressure  in  coming  weeks  to  revise  its  policy  .  "  Washington  will  have  to  take  into  account  that  for  many  countries  ,  and  some  of  its  allies  for  instance  in  Central  America  ,  a  sharp  fall  in  coffee  export  revenue  would  have  far  -  reaching  political  and  economic  consequences  ."  Arango  ruled  out  a  fresh  Colombian  initiative  on  export  quotas  saying  producers  had  now  to  show  a  common  resolve  which  could  emerge  from  continuous  contacts  .  ETHIOPIA  MINISTER  SEES  AFRICA  DEBT  PAYMENT  PROBLEM  Africa  may  have  to  follow  Brazil  in  halting  foreign  debt  payments  unless  industrialised  nations  are  prepared  to  be  more  flexible  in  trade  and  economic  policy  ,  Ethiopian  trade  minister  Tesfay  Dinka  said  .  Growing  protectionism  and  declining  commodity  prices  had  caused  a  major  deterioration  in  the  export  earnings  of  all  developing  countries  ,  he  said  in  an  opening  speech  to  a  meeting  of  African  trade  ministers  in  Addis  Ababa  .  Unless  there  was  an  early  improvement  in  developing  countries  '  terms  of  trade  "  the  only  choice  is  to  follow  the  route  that  Brazil  appears  to  have  taken  ,"  Tesfay  said  .  The  two  -  day  meeting  of  delegates  from  50  African  states  was  called  to  work  out  a  consensus  ahead  of  the  Group  of  77  ministerial  meeting  in  Havana  next  month  ,  when  the  developing  countries  will  debate  their  strategy  in  economic  negotiations  with  the  West  .  Tesfay  accused  the  West  of  intransigence  in  the  negotiation  of  recent  commodity  agreements  .  The  failure  of  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  to  agree  on  the  reintroduction  of  export  quotas  would  mean  "  several  African  countries  will  not  have  the  foreign  exchange  to  import  essential  items  ,"  he  said  .  Coffee  accounts  for  60  pct  of  Ethiopian  exports  and  the  recent  fall  in  world  coffee  prices  has  sharply  reduced  the  country  '  s  foreign  exchange  earnings  .  Adebayo  Adedeji  ,  the  executive  secretary  of  the  U  .  N  .  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  ,  told  the  meeting  that  there  was  an  increasing  net  outflow  of  resources  from  Africa  .  He  blamed  this  on  high  interest  rates  ,  debt  servicing  and  the  repatriation  of  profits  by  foreign  investors  .  Africa  paid  13  billion  dlrs  to  service  its  total  foreign  debt  last  year  and  by  1990  annual  service  payments  are  expected  to  rise  to  between  16  and  24  billion  ,  Adedeji  said  .  He  accused  industrialised  countries  of  failing  to  provide  more  resources  to  implement  the  U  .  N  .  Program  for  Africa  '  s  economic  recovery  and  development  ,  despite  Africa  '  s  willingness  to  raise  two  thirds  of  the  capital  from  domestic  sources  .  The  U  .  N  .  Program  ,  approved  last  year  ,  calls  for  128  billion  dlrs  of  economic  investment  in  Africa  over  five  years  .  Western  donors  were  asked  to  contribute  46  billion  dlrs  ,  with  the  rest  being  raised  from  local  resources  ,  but  Adedeji  said  the  donors  had  not  responded  as  hoped  .  In  view  of  this  poor  response  ,  he  said  "  it  is  possible  that  by  the  year  2  ,  000  nearly  all  African  countries  ,  except  a  few  ,  will  be  categorised  as  least  developed  countries  ."  At  present  ,  27  of  Africa  '  s  50  -  odd  states  are  officially  listed  in  this  category  .  ICO  QUOTA  TALKS  CONTINUE  ,  OUTCOME  HARD  TO  GAUGE  Talks  at  the  extended  special  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  on  the  reintroduction  of  export  quotas  continued  ,  but  chances  of  success  were  still  almost  impossible  to  gauge  ,  delegates  said  .  Producer  delegates  were  meeting  to  examine  a  Colombian  proposal  to  resume  historical  quotas  from  April  1  to  September  ,  with  a  promise  to  define  specific  new  criteria  by  which  a  new  quota  system  would  be  calculated  in  September  for  the  new  crop  year  ,  they  said  .  Opinions  among  delegates  over  the  potential  for  reaching  a  quota  agreement  varied  widely  .  Some  consumers  said  the  mood  of  the  meeting  seemed  slightly  more  optimistic  .  But  Brazil  '  s  unwillingness  to  concede  any  of  its  traditional  30  .  55  pct  of  its  export  market  share  looks  likely  to  preclude  any  accord  ,  other  delegates  said  .  No  fresh  proposals  other  than  the  Colombian  initiative  had  been  tabled  formally  today  ,  delegates  said  .  A  full  council  meeting  was  set  for  1900  hours  for  a  progress  report  ,  delegates  said  .  N  .  Y  .  TRADERS  SAY  LATIN  COFFEE  PRODUCERS  TO  MEET  Several  traders  and  analysts  here  told  Reuters  Latin  American  coffee  producers  will  meet  this  weekend  in  Managua  ,  Nicaragua  .  The  purpose  ,  they  said  ,  is  to  review  the  breakdown  of  International  Coffee  Organization  quota  talks  last  month  and  try  to  formulate  a  unified  position  ahead  of  possible  future  negotiations  .  Two  traders  ,  who  asked  not  to  be  named  ,  said  separately  Brazil  is  expected  to  attend  the  meeting  along  with  most  or  all  of  the  Central  American  producers  .  The  Central  American  attendees  would  include  Costa  Rica  and  Honduras  ,  who  were  part  of  a  minority  producer  group  at  the  February  talks  that  opposed  Brazil  '  s  position  ,  they  said  .  Another  source  ,  also  requesting  anonymity  ,  said  Colombia  probably  will  not  attend  .  LATIN  COFFEE  MEETING  TO  BE  HELD  IN  MANAGUA  Representatives  from  Brazil  ,  Colombia  ,  Mexico  and  Nicaragua  will  meet  here  Friday  to  discuss  the  economic  impact  of  falling  coffee  prices  ,  a  Nicaraguan  official  announced  .  Vice  -  minister  of  foreign  trade  Bernardo  Chamorro  said  that  participating  in  the  meeting  will  be  the  heads  of  the  coffee  associations  from  the  four  countries  .  He  did  not  say  if  the  meeting  would  continue  beyond  friday  .  Chamorro  said  Nicaragua  supports  the  establishment  of  export  quotas  in  an  effort  to  boost  sagging  world  prices  .  IBC  PRESIDENT  TO  ATTEND  MANAGUA  COFFEE  MEETING  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  president  Jorio  Dauster  said  he  will  attend  a  meeting  in  Managua  this  weekend  .  He  told  Reuters  by  telephone  from  Brasilia  that  the  meeting  ,  involving  Brazil  ,  Colombia  and  Central  American  coffee  producers  ,  will  be  strictly  to  review  the  coffee  market  situation  .  "  The  meeting  is  set  for  Saturday  but  could  also  continue  on  Sunday  ,"  he  said  .  DROUGHT  MAY  REDUCE  ZIMBABWE  COFFEE  OUTPUT  -  GROWERS  Zimbabwe  '  s  projected  coffee  output  of  13  ,  000  tonnes  for  1987  /  88  could  be  reduced  by  drought  ,  growers  said  .  The  main  coffee  growing  areas  in  eastern  Zimbabwe  have  received  little  rain  since  April  1986  and  the  Coffee  Growers  '  Association  has  begun  a  survey  to  assess  the  effects  of  the  drought  ,  a  spokesman  said  .  Zimbabwe  exported  11  ,  000  tonnes  of  coffee  in  1986  ,  mainly  to  West  Germany  ,  Britain  ,  Japan  ,  the  Netherlands  ,  Switzerland  and  the  United  States  .  COLOMBIA  WILL  NOT  ATTEND  MANAGUA  COFFEE  MEETING  Colombia  will  not  attend  a  meeting  of  coffee  producing  countries  scheduled  for  this  weekend  in  Nicaragua  ,  Jorge  Cadenas  ,  manager  of  the  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  ,  said  .  "  We  prefer  to  wait  until  things  are  better  prepared  ,"  he  told  Reuters  .  He  added  the  meeting  could  be  postponed  .  Colombia  ,  Brazil  and  the  Central  American  coffee  producing  countries  were  invited  to  the  meeting  in  Managua  to  analyze  the  market  situation  However  ,  he  did  not  dismiss  the  idea  of  dialogue  and  negotiation  in  preparation  for  meetings  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  .  Gilberto  Arango  ,  president  of  Colombia  '  s  exporters  '  association  ,  speaking  to  Reuters  earlier  this  week  ,  ruled  out  a  fresh  Colombian  initiative  on  export  quotas  saying  producers  had  now  to  show  a  common  resolve  which  could  emerge  from  continuous  contacts  .  The  International  Coffee  Organization  executive  board  is  to  meet  in  London  between  March  31  and  April  2  .  MADAGASCAR  COFFEE  PRODUCTION  SEEN  LOWER  IN  1987  Madagascar  '  s  available  coffee  output  is  estimated  at  80  ,  725  tonnes  this  year  ,  down  from  82  ,  210  in  1986  ,  due  to  a  rundown  of  government  agricultural  services  and  the  poor  state  of  feeder  roads  in  rural  areas  ,  Agriculture  Ministry  sources  said  .  This  is  after  accounting  for  the  loss  of  some  15  ,  000  to  20  ,  000  tonnes  due  to  the  transport  problems  in  the  countryside  ,  they  said  .  The  sources  did  not  give  an  estimate  for  exports  in  1987  ,  but  they  noted  that  shipments  declined  to  37  ,  200  tonnes  last  year  from  41  ,  662  in  1985  .  Low  yields  from  the  country  '  s  ageing  coffee  plantations  and  prevalence  of  the  fungal  disease  Hemileia  Vastatrix  also  contributed  to  the  poor  performance  ,  the  sources  said  .  They  pointed  out  that  52  pct  of  Madagascar  '  s  coffee  bushes  were  planted  before  1930  .  The  sources  said  Madagascar  was  still  a  long  way  from  reaching  the  production  target  of  110  ,  000  tonnes  per  year  and  the  export  target  of  63  ,  000  tonnes  outlined  in  the  government  '  s  1986  -  1990  five  -  year  plan  .  In  order  to  reverse  the  decline  in  coffee  production  ,  the  government  has  decided  to  plant  20  ,  000  hectares  with  high  -  yielding  arabica  and  canephora  varieties  ,  the  sources  said  .  The  planting  programme  will  begin  this  year  and  is  aimed  at  producing  300  to  360  kilos  per  hectare  of  beans  with  a  low  caffeine  content  .  The  sources  added  that  Madagascar  '  s  plan  to  export  roasted  coffee  has  failed  to  take  off  due  to  packaging  problems  .  Only  650  tonnes  of  roasted  coffee  were  exported  last  year  .  CSCE  PUTS  ADDITIONAL  MARGIN  ON  JULY  COFFEE  An  additional  margin  of  1  ,  000  dlrs  will  be  required  on  all  July  1987  delivery  coffee  "  C  "  contracts  as  of  the  opening  of  trade  Monday  ,  March  23  ,  the  Coffee  ,  Sugar  and  Cocoa  Exchange  ,  CSCE  ,  said  .  The  March  contract  ends  trading  this  week  ,  making  May  and  July  the  two  "  spot  ,"  or  unlimited  ,  contract  months  next  week  .  Members  will  then  have  to  obtain  a  minimum  3  ,  500  dlrs  for  net  long  or  net  short  positions  in  the  May  and  July  contracts  ,  including  a  2  ,  500  original  margin  plus  the  additional  1  ,  000  dlr  spot  charge  .  LATIN  COFFEE  PRODUCERS  SEEK  ICO  PRICE  SUPPORT  This  weekend  '  s  meeting  of  Latin  American  coffee  producers  here  will  call  for  the  International  Coffee  Organisation  (  ICO  )  to  start  talks  aimed  at  firming  prices  ,  Nicaraguan  foreign  trade  minister  Alejandro  Martinez  Cuenca  said  .  He  said  those  countries  which  had  confirmed  their  presence  were  Brazil  ,  Mexico  ,  Guatemala  ,  El  Salvador  ,  Costa  Rica  and  Panama  .  Colombia  had  been  invited  but  he  did  not  know  if  it  would  attend  .  Martinez  Cuenca  told  reporters  central  america  alone  had  lost  some  700  mln  dlrs  through  the  weakness  of  world  coffee  prices  ,  partially  caused  by  lack  of  an  ICO  quota  agreement  .  ICO  EXPORTERS  TO  MODIFY  NEW  PROPOSAL  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  exporters  will  modify  their  new  proposal  on  quota  resumption  before  presenting  it  to  importers  tomorrow  ,  ICO  delegates  said  .  The  change  ,  which  will  be  discussed  tonight  informally  among  producers  ,  follows  talks  after  the  formal  producer  session  with  the  eight  -  member  producer  splinter  group  and  will  affect  the  proposed  quota  distribution  for  12  months  from  April  one  ,  they  said  .  The  proposed  share  -  out  would  still  include  shortfall  declarations  ,  they  said  .  SENIOR  DELEGATES  PESSIMISTIC  ON  ICO  TALKS  Efforts  to  break  an  impasse  between  coffee  exporting  and  importing  countries  over  regulating  the  world  coffee  market  in  the  face  of  falling  prices  appear  to  have  failed  ,  senior  delegates  said  after  a  contact  group  meeting  .  The  full  ICO  council  is  due  to  meet  this  evening  .  President  of  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  Jorio  Dauster  told  Reuters  after  the  contact  group  meeting  there  had  been  no  agreement  on  quotas  as  consumers  had  tried  to  dictate  market  shares  rather  than  negotiate  them  .  Dauster  said  there  are  no  plans  yet  to  renew  negotiations  at  a  later  date  .  IBC  PRESIDENT  LEAVES  FOR  PRODUCER  MEETING  -  IBC  Jorio  Dauster  ,  president  of  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  IBC  ,  left  Brazil  early  today  to  attend  a  weekend  meeting  of  Latin  American  coffee  producers  in  Managua  ,  an  IBC  official  said  .  Carlos  Brasil  ,  an  adviser  to  the  IBC  president  ,  said  Dauster  had  left  Rio  de  Janeiro  for  Managua  early  this  morning  .  There  were  rumours  on  the  London  coffee  market  earlier  today  that  Dauster  would  not  attend  the  meeting  .  COFFEE  CONFERENCE  ENDS  WITH  CALL  TO  CONTINUE  TALKS  A  meeting  of  eight  Latin  American  coffee  producers  ended  with  a  call  for  continued  talks  aimed  at  arriving  at  an  agreement  to  stabilize  international  prices  .  A  statement  delivered  by  the  conference  '  s  president  ,  Nicaragua  '  s  External  Trade  Minister  Alejandro  Martinez  Cuenca  ,  said  the  object  of  future  meetings  would  be  to  seek  negotiations  leading  to  basic  export  quotas  .  The  meeting  was  attended  by  representatives  from  Brazil  ,  Mexico  ,  Guatemala  ,  El  Salvador  ,  Honduras  ,  Costa  Rica  and  Nicaragua  .  A  Panamanian  representative  attended  the  meeting  as  an  observer  .  Representatives  at  the  meeting  said  efforts  would  continue  to  be  made  to  reach  a  regional  consensus  on  export  quotas  which  could  be  presented  to  the  International  Coffee  Organization  .  In  opening  the  meeting  ,  Nicaraguan  President  Daniel  Ortega  said  the  lack  of  an  accord  on  export  quotas  was  behind  falling  coffee  prices  ,  which  he  said  have  caused  billions  of  dollars  in  losses  to  countries  in  the  region  .  Jorio  Dauster  ,  president  of  the  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  ,  said  his  government  is  committed  to  working  towards  an  producers  accord  in  order  to  bring  about  higher  prices  .  INDONESIA  '  S  NON  -  OIL  EXPORTS  DECLINE  IN  1986  Indonesia  '  s  non  -  oil  and  gas  exports  fell  to  5  .  79  billion  dlrs  in  calendar  1986  from  5  .  98  billion  in  1985  ,  according  to  Bank  Indonesia  figures  .  Coffee  exports  rose  to  753  mln  dlrs  from  580  mln  in  1985  ,  but  rubber  shipments  fell  to  625  mln  from  720  mln  and  tin  to  180  .  6  mln  from  246  mln  ,  weekly  central  bank  figures  show  .  Indonesia  hopes  to  boost  its  non  -  oil  exports  to  make  up  for  oil  revenue  lost  because  of  lower  prices  .  But  the  lower  value  of  commodities  such  as  timber  ,  rubber  ,  palm  oil  and  tea  on  world  markets  has  prevented  this  ,  despite  a  31  pct  devaluation  of  the  rupiah  against  the  dollar  in  September  .  GOOD  DEMAND  FOR  COLOMBIANS  ON  BREMEN  MARKET  The  Bremen  green  coffee  market  attracted  good  buying  interest  for  Colombian  coffee  last  week  ,  while  Brazils  were  almost  neglected  ,  trade  sources  said  .  Buyers  were  awaiting  the  opening  of  Brazil  '  s  export  registrations  for  May  shipment  ,  which  could  affect  prices  for  similar  qualities  ,  they  said  .  Colombia  opened  export  registrations  and  good  business  developed  with  both  the  FNC  and  private  shippers  .  Prices  were  said  to  have  been  very  attractive  ,  but  details  were  not  immediately  available  .  Central  Americans  were  sought  for  spot  and  afloat  .  In  the  robusta  sector  nearby  material  was  rather  scarce  ,  with  turnover  limited  ,  the  sources  said  .  The  following  offers  were  in  the  market  at  the  end  of  last  week  ,  first  or  second  hand  ,  sellers  '  ideas  for  spot  ,  afloat  or  prompt  shipment  in  dlrs  per  50  kilos  fob  equivalent  ,  unless  stated  (  previous  week  '  s  prices  in  brackets  )  -  Brazil  unwashed  German  quals  100  (  102  ),  Colombia  Excelso  105  (  110  ),  Salvador  SHG  110  (  108  ),  Nicaragua  SHG  109  (  same  ),  Guatemala  HB  111  (  same  ),  Costa  Rica  SHB  113  (  112  ),  Kenya  AB  FAQ  142  (  134  ),  Tanzania  AB  FAQ  120  (  same  ),  Zaire  K  -  5  105  (  unq  ),  Sumatra  robusta  EK  -  1  91  CIF  (  same  ).  CASH  CRISIS  HITS  UGANDAN  COFFEE  BOARD  Uganda  '  s  state  -  run  Coffee  Marketing  Board  (  CMB  )  has  been  suffering  a  cash  crisis  for  the  past  two  months  due  to  a  bottleneck  in  export  shipments  and  administrative  delays  in  handling  payments  ,  trade  sources  said  .  The  CMB  needs  between  10  and  15  billion  shillings  (  the  equivalent  of  seven  to  10  mln  dlrs  )  to  pay  farmers  and  processors  for  coffee  already  delivered  ,  but  its  present  export  revenue  is  insufficient  to  cover  such  expenditure  ,  they  said  .  The  board  '  s  cash  crisis  has  serious  implications  for  the  economy  as  a  whole  ,  since  coffee  accounts  for  95  pct  of  Uganda  '  s  total  exports  .  The  CMB  '  s  financial  difficulties  first  started  in  January  following  delays  in  rail  -  freighting  export  consignments  of  coffee  to  the  ports  of  Mombasa  ,  Dar  es  Salaam  and  Tanga  .  These  delays  were  caused  by  a  shortage  of  railway  wagons  in  Uganda  and  bottlenecks  on  the  ferries  which  transport  Ugandan  wagons  across  Lake  Victoria  to  link  up  with  the  Kenyan  and  Tanzanian  railway  systems  ,  the  sources  said  Marketing  Minister  John  Sebaana  -  Kizito  publicly  acknowledged  on  February  19  that  the  CMB  had  run  up  arrears  to  local  suppliers  as  a  result  of  the  shortage  of  transport  for  moving  exports  .  Sebaana  -  Kizito  said  at  the  time  that  the  payments  squeeze  would  be  resolved  in  two  weeks  .  However  ,  an  accident  to  the  rail  ferry  which  plies  between  the  Ugandan  lake  port  of  Jinja  and  Kisumu  in  Kenya  put  it  out  of  action  between  February  21  and  March  15  ,  causing  fresh  delays  in  cargo  movements  .  Coffee  exports  are  especially  sensitive  to  the  disruption  of  rail  transport  since  president  Yoweri  Museveni  has  banned  their  haulage  by  road  in  a  drive  to  save  transport  costs  .  Transport  difficulties  meant  that  by  early  February  the  CMB  was  holding  unsold  coffee  stocks  of  around  750  ,  000  bags  .  These  stocks  were  equivalent  to  one  quarter  of  Uganda  '  s  expected  three  mln  60  -  kilo  bag  1986  /  87  (  October  -  September  )  crop  ,  the  sources  said  .  According  to  the  sources  ,  the  board  '  s  financial  problems  have  been  aggravated  by  long  delays  in  processing  export  receipts  .  The  coffee  board  was  taking  about  eight  weeks  to  recycle  export  receipts  into  payments  to  local  producers  ,  whereas  export  bills  handled  by  local  banks  took  half  that  time  to  process  ,  they  said  .  The  sources  said  the  CMB  '  s  price  structure  had  been  overtaken  by  Uganda  '  s  high  inflation  rate  ,  unofficially  estimated  at  about  200  pct  ,  and  that  this  was  a  further  disincentive  to  producers  ,  already  owed  large  arrears  .  "  The  coffee  pricing  structure  is  wrong  and  three  months  behind  ,  the  foreign  exchange  rate  is  unrealistic  ,  and  the  sooner  the  so  -  called  economic  package  is  put  in  top  gear  ,  the  better  for  the  coffee  industry  and  the  economy  as  a  whole  ,"  one  of  the  sources  said  .  The  government  is  currently  negotiating  a  package  of  economic  reforms  with  the  World  Bank  and  International  Monetary  Fund  aimed  at  underpinning  a  renewed  inflow  of  foreign  aid  to  help  Uganda  '  s  economic  recovery  after  15  years  of  political  strife  .  ICO  COUNCIL  ENDS  IN  FAILURE  TO  AGREE  QUOTAS  A  special  meeting  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  council  failed  to  agree  on  how  to  set  coffee  export  quotas  ,  ICO  delegates  said  .  Producers  and  consumers  could  not  find  common  ground  on  the  issue  of  quota  distribution  in  eight  days  of  arduous  ,  often  heated  talks  ,  delegates  said  .  Export  quotas  --  the  major  device  of  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  to  stabilise  prices  --  were  suspended  a  year  ago  after  coffee  prices  soared  in  reaction  to  a  drought  in  Brazil  which  cut  its  output  by  two  thirds  .  Delegates  and  industry  representatives  predicted  coffee  prices  could  plummet  more  than  100  stg  a  tonne  to  new  four  year  lows  tomorrow  in  response  to  the  results  of  the  meeting  .  COFFEE  TRADERS  EXPECT  SELLOFF  AFTER  ICO  TALKS  FAIL  The  failure  of  the  International  Coffee  Organization  (  ICO  )  to  reach  agreement  on  coffee  export  quotas  could  trigger  a  massive  selloff  in  London  coffee  futures  of  at  least  100  stg  per  tonne  today  ,  coffee  trade  sources  said  .  Prices  could  easily  drop  to  as  low  as  1  .  00  dlr  or  even  80  cents  a  lb  this  year  from  around  1  .  25  dlrs  now  ,  they  said  .  A  special  meeting  between  importing  and  exporting  countries  ended  in  a  deadlock  late  yesterday  after  eight  days  of  talks  over  how  to  set  the  quotas  .  No  further  meeting  to  discuss  quotas  was  set  ,  delegates  said  .  Quotas  ,  the  major  device  used  to  stabilize  prices  under  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  ,  were  suspended  a  year  ago  after  prices  soared  following  a  damaging  drought  in  Brazil  .  With  no  propects  for  quotas  in  sight  ,  heavy  producer  selling  initially  and  a  price  war  among  commercial  coffee  roasting  companies  will  ensue  ,  the  trade  sources  predicted  .  Lower  prices  are  sure  to  trickle  down  to  the  supermarket  shelf  this  spring  ,  coffee  dealers  said  .  The  U  .  S  .  And  Brazil  ,  the  largest  coffee  importer  and  exporter  respectively  ,  each  laid  the  blame  on  the  other  for  the  breakdown  of  the  talks  .  Jon  Rosenbaum  ,  U  .  S  .  Assistant  trade  representative  and  delegate  to  the  talks  ,  said  in  a  statement  after  the  council  adjourned  ,  "  A  majority  of  producers  ,  led  by  Brazil  ,  were  not  prepared  to  negotiate  a  new  distribution  based  on  objective  criteria  .  "  We  want  to  insure  that  countries  receive  export  quotas  based  on  their  ability  to  supply  the  market  ,  instead  of  their  political  influence  in  the  ICO  ."  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  President  Jorio  Dauster  countered  ,  "  Negotiations  failed  because  consumers  tried  to  dictate  quotas  ,  not  negotiate  them  ."  Previously  ,  quotas  were  determined  by  historical  amounts  exported  ,  which  gave  Brazil  a  30  pct  share  of  a  global  market  of  about  58  mln  60  -  kilo  bags  .  A  majority  of  producers  wanted  quotas  to  continue  under  this  basic  scheme  .  But  most  consumers  and  a  maverick  group  of  eight  producers  proposed  carving  up  the  export  market  on  the  basis  of  exportable  production  and  stocks  ,  which  would  reduce  Brazil  '  s  share  to  28  .  8  pct  .  Consumer  delegates  said  this  method  would  reflect  changes  in  many  countries  '  export  capabilities  and  make  coffee  more  readily  available  to  consumers  when  they  need  it  .  A  last  -  minute  attempt  by  Colombia  ,  the  second  largest  exporter  ,  to  rescue  the  talks  with  a  compromise  interim  proposal  could  not  bring  the  two  sides  together  .  Delegates  speculated  Brazil  '  s  financial  problems  ,  illustrated  by  its  recent  suspension  of  interest  payments  on  bank  debt  ,  have  increased  political  pressure  on  the  country  to  protect  its  coffee  export  earnings  .  Developing  coffee  -  producing  countries  that  depend  heavily  on  coffee  earnings  ,  particularly  some  African  nations  and  Colombia  ,  are  likely  to  be  hurt  the  most  by  the  ICO  '  s  failure  to  agree  quotas  ,  analysts  said  .  The  expected  drop  in  prices  could  result  in  losses  of  as  much  as  three  billion  dlrs  in  a  year  ,  producer  delegates  forecast  .  The  ICO  executive  board  will  meet  March  31  ,  but  the  full  council  is  not  due  to  meet  again  until  September  ,  delegates  said  .  COLOMBIA  COFFEE  REVENUE  SHARPLY  DOWN  IN  JAN  /  FEB  Colombia  '  s  coffee  export  revenue  dropped  97  mln  dlrs  to  233  .  6  mln  dlrs  for  the  first  two  months  of  the  year  against  330  .  9  mln  dlrs  in  the  similar  period  of  1986  ,  central  bank  preliminary  figures  show  .  Experts  attributed  the  fall  to  lower  world  market  prices  following  the  failure  to  re  -  introduce  international  coffee  export  quotas  ,  but  they  said  Colombia  could  compensate  the  drop  with  higher  exports  in  calendar  1987  .  Coffee  export  revenue  for  1986  was  2  .  33  billion  dlrs  ,  according  to  the  bank  .  Jorge  Cardenas  ,  manager  of  the  National  Coffee  Growers  '  Federation  ,  last  week  estimated  the  recent  drop  of  30  cents  a  lb  in  coffee  prices  would  mean  a  net  loss  revenue  of  457  mln  dlrs  for  Colombia  .  But  he  stressed  that  Colombia  ,  with  stockpiles  of  10  mln  (  60  -  kg  )  bags  ,  had  the  capacity  to  export  more  and  would  use  a  recently  -  introduced  more  flexible  marketing  policy  to  do  so  .  BRAZILIAN  SEAMEN  SAY  14  ,  000  NOW  BACK  AT  WORK  About  14  ,  000  of  Brazil  '  s  40  ,  000  seamen  are  now  back  at  work  after  pay  accords  with  21  shipping  companies  but  the  rest  are  still  on  strike  ,  a  spokesman  at  strike  headquarters  said  today  .  The  seamen  began  a  national  stoppage  on  February  27  .  The  spokesman  ,  talking  by  telephone  from  Rio  de  Janeiro  ,  said  126  ships  were  strike  -  bound  .  He  added  that  because  of  resignations  by  many  seamen  there  were  scarcely  any  crews  left  on  38  of  these  ships  .  The  seamen  have  settled  in  general  for  pay  rises  of  120  pct  with  the  21  companies  .  Talks  with  the  shipowners  '  association  Syndarma  have  been  deadlocked  over  overtime  .  While  exports  have  been  delayed  by  the  strike  ,  exporters  say  the  problems  have  been  manageable  .  "  It  hasn  '  t  been  critical  by  any  means  ,"  said  a  coffee  trader  in  Santos  ,  who  noted  that  coffee  was  still  moving  on  foreign  ships  .  Economic  analysts  added  ,  however  ,  that  any  delay  to  exports  served  to  aggravate  Brazil  '  s  balance  of  payments  crisis  ,  which  last  month  prompted  the  government  to  suspend  interest  payments  on  68  billion  dlrs  of  commercial  debt  .  VIETNAM  TO  RESETTLE  300  ,  000  ON  STATE  FARMS  IN  1987  Vietnam  will  resettle  300  ,  000  people  on  state  farms  known  as  new  economic  zones  in  1987  ,  to  create  jobs  and  grow  more  high  -  value  export  crops  ,  the  communist  party  newspaper  Nhan  Dan  said  .  Yesterday  '  s  edition  ,  received  here  today  ,  said  Vietnam  would  invest  one  billion  dong  ,  including  the  costs  of  relocation  ,  in  272  new  economic  zones  .  About  one  third  of  that  sum  would  be  spent  on  export  crops  such  as  coffee  ,  tea  ,  rubber  and  pepper  in  the  Central  Highlands  ,  it  said  .  Since  1975  ,  Vietnam  has  resettled  about  three  million  people  from  cities  and  crowded  river  deltas  to  the  zones  .  WEST  GERMAN  JAN  COFFEE  IMPORTS  DOWN  ON  YEAR  -  AGO  West  German  gross  green  coffee  imports  in  January  fell  sharply  to  38  ,  616  tonnes  from  54  ,  576  in  January  last  year  ,  figures  from  the  Federal  Statistics  Office  show  .  Imports  of  decaffeinated  unroasted  coffee  were  396  tonnes  against  nil  a  year  earlier  .  IBC  PRESIDENT  NOT  TO  ATTEND  ICO  EXECUTIVE  BOARD  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  president  Jorio  Dauster  said  he  will  not  attend  the  ICO  executive  board  meeting  and  was  surprised  to  hear  that  a  report  of  his  absence  had  a  slightly  depressing  effect  on  the  New  York  coffee  market  today  .  "  I  have  too  much  work  to  accomplish  here  in  Brazil  at  the  moment  .  Besides  the  presence  of  the  IBC  president  at  an  ICO  executive  board  meeting  is  not  a  tradition  ,"  Dauster  said  .  Dauster  said  except  in  rare  cases  ,  Brazil  has  always  sent  its  London  -  based  representative  to  ICO  board  meetings  .  Ambassador  Lindenberg  Sette  will  attend  the  meeting  ,  he  said  .  DAUSTER  SAYS  NO  CHANGE  IN  BRAZIL  '  S  COFFEE  POLICY  Brazil  will  not  announce  any  changes  to  its  coffee  export  policy  ,  Brazilian  Coffee  Institute  (  IBC  )  president  Jorio  Dauster  said  .  He  told  Reuters  Brazil  was  not  planning  to  modify  the  position  it  held  before  the  recent  International  Coffee  Organisation  meeting  .  Earlier  this  month  ,  talks  in  London  to  set  new  ICO  export  quotas  failed  .  Commenting  on  the  outcome  of  a  coffee  producers  '  meeting  in  Managua  last  weekend  ,  Dauster  said  that  they  discussed  nothing  involving  the  market  .  "  In  the  meeting  we  agreed  to  work  on  behalf  of  the  union  of  the  producers  in  matters  related  to  an  international  agreement  ,"  Dauster  said  .  The  Managua  meeting  was  attended  by  representatives  from  Brazil  ,  Mexico  ,  Guatemala  ,  El  Salvador  ,  Honduras  ,  Costa  Rica  ,  Nicaragua  and  Panama  ,  the  latter  represented  at  the  meeting  merely  as  an  observer  .  COFFEE  PRICE  FALL  SHORT  TERM  -  DUTCH  ROASTERS  This  morning  '  s  sharp  decline  in  coffee  prices  ,  following  the  breakdown  late  last  night  of  negotiations  in  London  to  reintroduce  International  Coffee  Organization  ,  ICO  ,  quotas  ,  will  be  short  -  lived  ,  Dutch  roasters  said  .  "  The  fall  is  a  technical  and  emotional  reaction  to  the  failure  to  agree  on  reintroduction  of  ICO  export  quotas  ,  but  it  will  not  be  long  before  reality  reasserts  itself  and  prices  rise  again  ,"  a  spokesman  for  one  of  the  major  Dutch  roasters  said  .  "  The  fact  is  that  while  there  are  ample  supplies  of  coffee  available  at  present  ,  there  is  a  shortage  of  quality  ,"  he  said  .  "  Average  prices  fell  to  around  110  cents  a  lb  following  the  news  of  the  breakdown  but  we  expect  them  to  move  back  again  to  around  120  cents  within  a  few  weeks  ,"  the  roaster  added  .  Dutch  Coffee  Roasters  '  Association  secretary  Jan  de  Vries  said  although  the  roasters  were  disappointed  at  the  failure  of  consumer  and  producer  ICO  representatives  to  agree  on  quota  reintroduction  ,  it  was  equally  important  that  quotas  be  reallocated  on  a  more  equitable  basis  .  "  There  is  no  absolute  need  for  quotas  at  this  moment  because  the  market  is  well  balanced  and  we  must  not  lose  this  opportunity  to  renegotiate  the  coffee  agreement  ,"  he  said  .  "  There  is  still  a  lot  of  work  to  be  done  on  a  number  of  clauses  of  the  International  Coffee  Agreement  and  we  would  not  welcome  quota  reintroduction  until  we  have  a  complete  renegotiation  ,"  de  Vries  added  .  With  this  in  mind  ,  and  with  Dutch  roasters  claiming  to  have  fairly  good  forward  cover  ,  the  buying  strategy  for  the  foreseeable  future  would  probably  be  to  buy  coffee  on  a  hand  -  to  -  mouth  basis  and  on  a  sliding  scale  when  market  prices  were  below  120  cents  a  lb  ,  roasters  said  .